<doc id=Wounds/18075633> Unsafe sharps management.  Case histories are based on actual medical negligence claims or medicolegal referrals. However, certain facts have been omitted or changed by the author to ensure the anonymity of the parties involved. This article examines an incident involving a patient who sustained a 'needlestick' injury at a general practitioner's surgery. Advice on how to manage a 'needlestick' injury and strategies to ensure the safe management of sharps are outlined.
<doc id=Wounds/22279950> Management and outcomes of laryngeal injuries in the pediatric population.  Pediatric laryngeal trauma is an uncommon event. The purpose of this study was to identify outcomes following surgical procedures for pediatric laryngeal trauma, and to provide an in-depth review of the literature.The National Trauma Data Bank was utilized to identify pediatric laryngeal trauma incidents with admission years 2002 through 2006. Patient demographics, injury type, surgical procedures, hospital and intensive care unit durations, ventilator duration, and discharge disposition were abstracted.There were 69 laryngeal trauma incidents identified, with a median patient age of 12.8 years and an overall mortality rate of 8.7%. Laryngeal injury was frequently blunt-force in nature (82.8%) and often occurred in conjunction with trauma to multiple organ systems (76.8%). Tracheotomy (16 procedures), laryngeal suturing (13 procedures), and laryngeal fracture repair (10 procedures) were the most frequent procedures identified. Laryngeal fracture repair was noted to increase the overall hospital duration (p = 0.040). The communication scores were affected only by tracheotomy (p = 0.013). Surgical intervention did not significantly affect the frequency of home discharge.Pediatric laryngeal trauma is an uncommon event that can be evaluated with the National Trauma Data Bank. Although patients who undergo laryngeal fracture repair appear to have an increased duration of hospitalization, patients who undergo tracheotomy or laryngeal suturing do not have increased durations of ventilator dependence, stay in an intensive care unit, or hospitalization.
<doc id=Wounds/10117899> The Critikon ProtectIV catheter issue.  Most healthcare professionals have already read about the union grievance over the Critikon ProtectIV catheter filed at San Francisco General Hospital. The union's position was that the catheter which is designed to prevent needlesticks during insertion and removal, should be used in all applications at the hospital, rather than only in those that seemed to present greater risk of injury or infection. HHMM believes that engineering controls--specifically safety needles--should be fundamental to a good exposure control plan for bloodborne pathogens. If the primary pathway of exposure is the needlestick and the point of the control plan is to reduce needlesticks, then it is hard to refute the logic that safety devices are the best approach. The following material consists of the statement made by Dr. Peter Lurie to the grievance committee at San Francisco++ General and a letter from Dr. Janine Jagger presenting initial data on the effectiveness of the ProtectIV catheter in reducing injuries. Both are reprinted with permission. HHMM offers these documents for the information they contain, as well as for the guidance they offer in how to begin evaluating safety needle devices.
<doc id=Wounds/18474157> Thoracic trauma: presentation and management outcome.  To determine the presentation and management outcome of thoracic trauma in a tertiary care setting.Case series study.The study was carried out in the Department of Surgery, Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS), Islamabad from January to December 2005.A total of 143 patients, who presented with chest trauma, were included in the study. All the patients were assessed by the history, physical examination and ancillary investigations. Appropriate managements were instituted as required. Data was described in percentages.Out of 143 patients, 119 (83%) were males and 24 (17%) were females. Most of the patients belonged to the age group of 21-50 years. Ninety seven (66%) patients were admitted for indoor management. Blunt injury was found in 125 (87.4%) patients, while penetrating injuries in only 18 (12.6%) patients. Road Traffic Accidents (RTAs) were the commonest cause of trauma (n=103, 72%). Rib fracture was the commonest chest injury (74% patients). Head injury was the most frequently associated injury (18% of the patients). Tube thoracostomy was the commonest intervention undertaken in 65 (45%) patients. Seventeen (11.88%) patients were managed with mechanical ventilation. There were 17 deaths with a mortality rate of 11.88%.Thoracic trauma is an important cause of hospitalization, morbidity and mortality in the younger population. RTAs constitute the leading cause of thoracic trauma in our setup. Tube thoracostomy is the most frequent and at times the only invasive procedure required as a definitive measure in thoracic trauma patients. A policy of selective hospitalization helps to avoid unnecessary hospital admissions.
<doc id=Wounds/7769771> Hospitalization charges, costs, and income for firearm-related injuries at a university trauma center.  To quantify the actual cost of inpatient medical care for firearm-related injuries at a university trauma center.Retrospective case series of all hospital admissions for firearm-related injuries for the 3 years 1990 through 1992. Total inpatient financial data were examined by means of a recently instituted cost-accounting methodology.Level I trauma center at a university hospital that provides trauma care and tertiary care to 3.7 million residents of 23 counties.A total of 787 consecutive patients were admitted to the hospital with firearm-related injuries. Information from the trauma registry and hospital finance records were linked for 750 (95%) of these patients.Total inpatient hospital charges, costs, revenues, and net income according to payer source.Men aged 15 to 44 years accounted for 77% of patients with firearm-related injuries. The overall mean and median hospital charges per admission were $52,271 and $28,033, respectively, whereas the overall mean and median hospital costs per admission were $13,794 and $7964, respectively. The net income per patient ranged from an average loss of $6980 for each patient having no insurance to an average profit of $28,557 for each patient with a health maintenance organization contract. The losses sustained on nonsponsored and Medicaid patients were more than offset by net income from patients having private health insurance, Medicare, or other insurance coverage such that there was an average profit of $5809 per admission for a firearm-related injury.Treatment of firearm-related injuries produces net income for this university trauma center by virtue of the cost shifting built into its pricing structure. If data from this institution are extrapolated to the nation, then the actual cost of providing medical care for firearm-related injuries in the United States in 1995 is projected to be $4.0 billion. The majority of this cost will be paid indirectly by private health insurance.
<doc id=Wounds/19520459> Patient-days: a better measure of incidence of occupational bloodborne exposures.  There is currently no accepted standard denominator to calculate and to report the incidence of occupational exposures to bloodborne pathogens (OEBBPs) in health care.We performed a multicenter study of OEBBP injuries reported from 31 community hospitals in the southeastern United States from January 2003 to December 2006. A qualitative design was used to assess 4 commonly used denominators to calculate the incidence of OEBBP: patient-days; staffed beds; occupied beds and full-time employee equivalents (FTEs). Six criteria were used to assess the quality and suitability of each denominator as a standard method to calculate incidence of OEBBP. We also analyzed the correlation of hospital rankings produced by these 4 denominators.During 4 years of study, a total of 3375 occupational exposures were reported. Patient-days outperformed others as a denominator to calculate rates of OEBBP when judged by 6 predefined criteria. Data for staffed beds, occupied beds, and FTE were manually collected, infrequently reported, and often subject to missing data. Furthermore, FTE and staffed beds data also captured unoccupied beds and non-clinical employee data that were not associated with risk of OEBBP.Patient-days may be the most suitable and readily available denominator for standard reporting and benchmarking of incidence of OEBBP. Patient-days may be used as a standard method for comparing rates of OEBBP.
<doc id=Wounds/3967911> Delayed pneumothorax and haemothorax following observation for stab wounds of the chest.  In a prospective study, 85 patients underwent simple observation for minor injuries of the pleural cavity as a result of penetrating injury of the chest. Seven patients (8 per cent) required delayed drainage, because of an increase in the size of the pneumothorax and/or haemothorax, but in all cases drainage was instituted within 24 hours. Haemopneumothorax is the most likely underlying disorder to require delayed drainage. Subcutaneous emphysema is of no value for identifying those cases likely to need delayed drainage. Twenty-four hours is adequate for the observation of patients with slight effects of penetrating wounds of the chest.
<doc id=Wounds/8913969> Glut1 glucose transporter activity in human brain injury.  The principal glucose transporter at the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is the Glut1 isoform, and transporter density is believed to be an index of cerebral metabolic rate. In the present study, glucose transporter expression was studied in tissue resected 7-8 h after acute traumatic brain injuries in 2 patients. Light microscopic immunochemistry indicated a zone of complete loss of the Glut1 glucose transporter isoform in microvessel endothelial cells adjacent to sites of small vessel injury, concentrically surrounded by a narrow zone of variable Glut1, and distally surrounded by capillaries with typically immunoreactive endothelia in nondisrupted parenchyma. Variably reactive capillaries displayed alternating sectors of greatly reduced and highly reactive Glut1 density, suggesting a high density and low density of transporter activity in contiguous endothelial cells. Quantitative electron microscopic immunogold analyses demonstrated that the transporter was predominantly localized to the luminal and abluminal endothelial membranes, with lesser reactivity in cytoplasm; pericyte Glut1 was minimally above background levels. In endothelial sectors with reduced Glut1 transporter immunoreactivity, the luminal:abluminal ratio of Glut1 epitòpes was less than unity; while it is greater than unity in highly reactive endothelial cells. The number of Glut1-immunoreactive sites per micrometer of capillary membrane was not significantly different from previous reported Glut1 density in seizure resections, and about 2- to 3-fold higher than in human red cells. In the same tissue samples, qualitative immunogold electron microscopy of human serum albumin indicated leakage of this protein (MW 65,000) from the vascular space into pericapillary regions. Thus the high Glut1 density observed in capillaries from acutely injured brain occurs concomitantly with compromised barrier function.
<doc id=Wounds/11394796> Jugular venous emboli of brain tissue induced in sheep by the use of captive bolt guns.  Emboli of central nervous tissue were detected in the jugular venous blood of two of 15 sheep stunned with a conventional cartridge-operated captive bolt gun and in two of 15 sheep stunned with a pneumatically activated gun. No emboli were detected in arterial blood from these sheep or in venous blood from sheep stunned electrically. Emboli from an animal with BSE could transmit the disease to people.
<doc id=Wounds/10414647> Multifactorial analysis of firearm wounds to the head with attention to anatomic location.  Firearm wounds to the head are often fatal and are routinely encountered in the practice of forensic pathology in the United States. Often, the anatomic site of the entrance wound is used to support or refute the manner of death indicated by the scene investigation and/or circumstances of the case. The present retrospective study of 120 fatalities resulting from 140 firearm wounds to the head correlates the anatomic region of the entrance wound and range of fire with the manner of death. Other demographic data analyzed include age, race, and gender of the decedents, as well as evidence of drug and/or ethanol use. It is hoped that this study will provide concrete data to support the largely anecdotal associations between the specific site of entry of firearm injuries to the head and the manner of death.
<doc id=Wounds/8607694> Cardiopulmonary bypass for resuscitation after penetrating cardiac trauma.  Cardiopulmonary bypass is only occasionally required acutely in the management of penetrating cardiac injuries, usually to allow coronary grafting. We describe a case of penetrating trauma in which cardiopulmonary bypass was used to resuscitate a patient whose cardiac lacerations were controlled in the emergency department.
<doc id=Wounds/22000177> Lower extremity vascular injuries: increased mortality for minorities and the uninsured?  There is increasing evidence to suggest that racial disparities exist in outcomes for trauma. Minorities and the uninsured have been found to have higher mortality rates for blunt and penetrating trauma. However, mechanisms for these disparities are incompletely understood. Limiting the inquiry to a homogenous group, those with lower extremity vascular injuries (LEVIs), may clarify these disparities.The National Trauma Data Bank (NTDB; version 7.0, American College of Surgeons) was used for this study. LEVIs were identified using codes from the International Classification of Diseases, 9th revision. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed using Stata software (version 11; StataCorp, LP, College Station, TX).Records were reviewed for 4,928 LEVI patients. The mechanism of injury was blunt in 2,452 (49.8%), penetrating in 2,452 (49.8%), and unknown in 24 cases (0.5%). Mortality was similar by mechanism (7.6% overall). Regression analysis using mechanism as a covariate revealed a significantly worse mortality for people of color (POC; odds ratio [OR], 1.45; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.03-2.02; P = .03) and the uninsured (UN; OR, 1.62; 95% CI, 1.15-2.23; P = .006). However, when separate analyses were performed stratifying by mechanism, no significant mortality disparities were found for blunt trauma (POC OR, 1.28; 95% CI, 0.85-1.96; P = .23; UN OR, 1.33; 95% CI, 0.78-2.22; P = .29), but disparities remained for penetrating trauma (POC OR, 1.81; 95% CI, 0.93-3.57; P = .08; UN OR, 1.85; 95% CI, 1.18-2.94; P = .009).For patients with LEVI, mortality disparities based on race or insurance status were only observed for penetrating trauma. It is possible that injury heterogeneity or patient cohort differences may partly explain mortality disparities that have been observed between racial and socioeconomic groups.Copyright © 2011 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.
<doc id=Wounds/9927271> Risk of transmission and features of hepatitis C after needlestick injuries.  The rate of transmission and management of needlestick injuries from hepatitis C virus (HCV) patients to healthcare workers is still a matter of debate. We used a stringent protocol using monthly transaminase levels and polymerase chain reaction for HCV RNA to monitor 53 healthcare workers prospectively for up to 6 months following needle injuries from HCV-positive patients. Evidence of transmission of HCV was found in only 2 workers (4%) with mild asymptomatic infection, one of which resolved spontaneously. Based on our experience, we now use a less-intensive follow-up protocol. Further investigation is required to determine the most cost-effective method to monitor individuals who suffer a needlestick injury from an HCV-positive patient.
<doc id=Wounds/2076315> [Laryngeal traumatism following a hunting accident].  Laryngo-tracheal traumatisms are not frequent at peace time. They are life-threatening chirurgical situations. They frequently use to be multiple lesions and attaining several anatomic regions. They are considered mortal situations if they are localized in head and neck regions. We report one case of such pathology in a 33 years old male who suffered a laryngeal and thoracic injury for firearm.
<doc id=Wounds/11563751> Victim's scalp on the killer's head. An unusual case of criminal postmortem mutilation.  A case of unusual postmortem mutilation of a victim's body is presented. After killing his father, the son decapitated his body and dissected the scalp free, forming a mask of the father's head and neck. The young man wore the scalp-mask over his own head to imitate the father. The motive of the murder was revenge, and the postmortem mutilation was the realization of the perpetrator's fantasies, symbolically representing a penalty for the reprehensible past life of his father.
<doc id=Wounds/10070469> Technique of removal of an impacted sharp object in a penetrating head injury using the lever principle.  Penetrating head injuries can be difficult to manage as the extensive surgery which may be required can result in severe morbidity and mortality in some patients. A conservative surgical approach with a pull and see policy was adopted successfully in a described case. Extraction can be achieved by using the mechanical advantage of the lever principle. By this method while removing the object any movements of sharp edges which will cause secondary damage can be reduced to a minimum.
<doc id=Wounds/602450> On the possibilities of the application of scanning electron microscopy in the forensic medicine.  The aim of the paper is to provide pertinent, information about scanning electron microscopy (SEM), with a detailed survey on the great possibilities of SEM which is becoming increasingly important in research and practical work of forensic medicine. The electronoptical characteristics of the method are discussed and the basic preparation methods to be selected are described. The areas of forensic medicine where these methods have already been used, as well as the results obtained, are briefly surveyed. The present state of affairs as well as personal experiences with hairs, bones, muscle and skin are described in detail. The experience with the critical point drying method is described. This method according to the reviewers, is very useful for work with hairs, bones, nails and sometimes with skin although the preparation may result in secondary destructions of the tissues of high water content to such an extent that the evaluation will be interfered with or becomes impossible. Further possibilities of these perspectivic methods are under research. The discussion of the physiological data is preceded by a historical description of the SEM and TEM systems and the basic principles of its function, which should facilitate reading of the text.
<doc id=Wounds/9323954> Optic nerve avulsion from a diving injury.  To report a patient with optic nerve avulsion caused by forceful rotation of the globe that occurred when his thumb penetrated the orbit while he was diving.A 17-year-old boy was initially examined for sudden loss of vision after jumping feet first from a bridge 50 feet above a river. Upon hitting the water, he felt his right thumb push into his right globe. The patient underwent ophthalmologic and imaging examination.Examination disclosed a tear of the optic nerve head from the sclera temporally in the right eye.Optic nerve avulsion occurs secondary to forceful rotation of the eye with tearing of the optic nerve as it exits the globe.
<doc id=Wounds/24038892> Association between suicide method, and gender, age, and education level in Iran over 2006-2010.  We aimed to evaluate the relationship between suicide method, and gender, age, and level of education in a nationwide study in Iran over the period from 2006 to 2010.Data on completed suicide cases referred to all forensic medicine centers throughout the country that were approved by an autopsy test were collected using data collection forms, which were filled out by the family members in interview sessions. Then, statistical analyses were performed using analysis of variance and chi-square tests, as well as logistic regression analysis.Hanging is more popular among men (62.9% versus 27.7%), while self-burning is preferable for women (39% versus 7%) (P < 0.0001). Younger individuals more frequently adopt a highly violent method, firearms (mean age of 27.1), while older persons more often use hanging and poisoning (mean ages of 32.4 and 32.1, respectively) (P < 0.0001). Hanging and self-burning are more frequently used by persons with lower levels of education, whereas poisoning is more popular with more educated individuals (P < 0.0001).All of the studied variables, that is, gender, age, education level, are critical risk factors of adopting different suicide methods in an Iranian population. Future work is necessary to explore the psychopathology adopting different suicide methods in the Iranian population.Copyright © 2013 Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.
<doc id=Wounds/7707473> Sonographic appearance of oxidized cellulose (Surgicel): pitfall in the diagnosis of postoperative abscess.  Oxidized regenerated cellulose (Surgicel) is used for intraoperative hemostasis and frequently is left in the surgical bed. We describe the sonographic appearance of Surgicel, which may mimic an abscess in the postoperative setting. Sonograms from six postoperative patients with retained Surgicel were collected. The use of Surgicel was confirmed by consultation with the operating surgeon. In five patients, correlative CT scans were performed. All cases appeared as echogenic masses with posterior reverberation artifact suggestive of an abscess due to gas forming organisms. In three patients, fluid surrounded the echogenic masses. Correlative CT scans showed that the Surgicel masses contained complex collections of fluid and gas. Five of six patients showed no clinical evidence of an abscess. The presence of echogenic masses with posterior reverberation artifact in postoperative patients should alert the sonologist that Surgicel may have been used, and an appropriate history should be sought.
<doc id=Wounds/2313747> Pressure wave injuries to the nervous system caused by high-energy missile extremity impact: Part I. Local and distant effects on the peripheral nervous system--a light and electron microscopic study on pigs.  Pigs were used for studies of effects on the peripheral nervous tissue of pressure waves induced by impact and passage through the left thigh of high-energy missiles. The short-lasting pressure waves were demonstrated to move close to the speed of sound and to have a spectrum of high frequencies and large amplitudes. The sciatic nerve in the contralateral leg showed no hemorrhage or major deformation. Both immediately after the missile impact and after 48 hr the myelin sheaths in the contralateral sciatic nerve showed deformation. Myelin was bulging into the axon, dislocating the axoplasm. The nodes of Ranvier could be exposed to an increased extent. Electron microscopic examination revealed decreased number of microtubules immediately after the trauma, persisting even after 48 hr in the largest axon. Schwann cells showed, especially after 48 hr, signs of damage and swelling. Similar changes, although less extensive, were noticed in the phrenic nerves as well as in unmyelinated axons in both sciatic and phrenic nerves. It is concluded that a high-energy missile hit in the thigh of a pig, caused structurally demonstrable dislocations of myelin sheaths, and disarrangement of cytoskeleton and endoplasmic reticulum in axons as well as other signs of damage. The changes may interfere with the normal functions of peripheral and autonomic nerves.
<doc id=Wounds/24165614> Plastic surgeons and the management of trauma: from the JFK assassination to the Boston Marathon bombing.  The fiftieth anniversary of the death by assassination of President John Kennedy is an opportunity to pay homage to his memory and also reflect on the important role plastic surgeons have played in the management of trauma. That reflection included a hypothetical scenario, a discussion of the surgical treatment of Kennedy (if he survived) and Governor Connally. The scenario describes the management of cranioplasty in the presence of scalp soft-tissue contracture, reconstruction of the proximal trachea, reconstitution of the abdominal wall, and restoration of a combined radius and soft-tissue defect. The development of diagnostic and therapeutic advances over the past 50 years in the care of maxillofacial trauma is described, including the evolution of imaging, timing of surgery, and operative techniques. Finally, contemporary measures of triage in situations involving mass casualties, as in the Boston Marathon bombings, complete the dedication to President Kennedy.
<doc id=Wounds/3765901> [Stab injuries of the skull and brain].  A few cases of skull and brain stab wounds are described and the clinicodiagnostic problems discussed. The injuries often remain unrecognized because the external wound often appears harmless, there are no neurological symptoms, or the clinical picture is interpreted as drunkenness, blunt injury or as another disease. The importance of a precise physical examination of the whole patient's head is pointed out. The refined methods used in modern radiodiagnostics of the skull are the most helpful in correctly recognizing these injuries; there are reports of patients with severe injuries who recovered when the correct diagnosis had been established.
<doc id=Wounds/14640287> Meningitis following gunshot wound of the neck.  It is generally assumed that a missile fired from a gun is subjected to sufficient heat to render it sterilized. For this reason, retained bullets are not usually considered a source of infection. The infectious complications associated with gunshot wounds are typically attributed to perforation of a hollow viscus with leakage of gastrointestinal contents causing peritonitis or intra-abdominal abscess. There are several reports of bacterial meningitis involving the spinal cord in gunshot wounds that perforate the intestine prior to involving the thoracic or lumbar vertebral column; however, there are no published reports of cerebral meningitis resulting from a retained projectile in the spinal canal in which there was no injury to the gastrointestinal tract. This manuscript describes a woman who died as a result of unsuspected acute bacterial meningitis which developed secondary to a gunshot wound of the neck. The projectile fractured the first thoracic vertebra, lacerated the dura and contused the spinal cord at the C7-T1 junction. Meningitis developed at the C7-T1 level and ascended along the cervical spinal cord to the brain. The infection caused acute neurologic deterioration and death four days following the initial injury.
<doc id=Wounds/2606753> Victims of gun shootings. A retrospective study of 36 spinal cord injured adolescents.  Interpersonal violence with a handgun is the primary cause of spinal cord injuries (SCI) among teenagers in the population served by the Southeastern Michigan Spinal Cord Injury System (SEMSCIS). As part of a community-wide effort to reduce the injury and death rate from acts of violence, SEMSCIS selected the victim, rather than the perpetrator or the sociocultural environment, as its segment of a prevention program. A retrospective study of demographic data, causal statements, medical information from the medical records of 36 injured adolescents, and telephone conversations with the victims identified risk taking as the pre-event behavior that had made them vulnerable to violence. This study led to the production of a powerful video, Wasted Dreams, in which disabled teenagers tell their peers about their injury and how to avoid becoming a victim.
<doc id=Wounds/19193421> Civilian gunshot injuries of the penis: the Miami experience.  To perform a retrospective study to evaluate the circumstances, extent of trauma, and modalities of treatment for penile injuries caused by firearms in a large metropolitan area. The management of civilian injuries differs significantly from that of the military, and experience with penetrating trauma to the external male genitalia in civilian life has been minimally reported.From 1989 to 2006, 58 patients with gunshot wounds of the penis were evaluated at Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami, Florida.The mean age at presentation was 29.0 years. Of the 58 patients, 76% were African American. The source of injury was unstated in 50% of cases and was related to criminal causes in 43% and to accidents in 7%. Most patients presented with associated injuries (90%), most commonly of the lower extremities (69%) or the scrotum (52%). Retrograde urethrography was performed in 45 patients, of whom 24% demonstrated contrast extravasation. Of the 58 patients, 72% underwent surgical exploration, with the remaining treated conservatively. Of the 42 patients who underwent surgery, 19 underwent exploration by penile degloving, 17 underwent local exploration, and 6 with a penoscrotal approach.Gunshot wounds to the penis are rare and are commonly associated with injuries of other organs. In sharp contrast to military injuries, minimal tissue destruction is seen, and minimal debridement is needed. If corporal injuries are suspected, penile exploration is warranted. If, in addition, the suspicion for testicular injury is high, penile and scrotal exploration can be performed using a penoscrotal approach.
<doc id=Wounds/3761242> Free radial forearm flap versatility for the head and neck and lower extremity.  Microsurgical techniques have developed numerous territories suitable for free tissue transfer. However, the demand for thin cutaneous resurfacing limits the choice of flaps available to the reconstructive microsurgeon. The radial forearm flap is a thin, axial, fasciocutaneous flap, offering pliable cutaneous resurfacing, with or without sensation. We have used 15 flaps to reconstruct defects in the head and neck and lower extremity resulting from burns, blunt and avulsive trauma, radiation necrosis, and tumor ablation. Two flaps (15 percent) developed venous congestion and were salvaged by reoperation. One retrograde flap (7.5 percent) developed partial necrosis from arterial insufficiency. Neural re-innervation was successful in two out of three patients in whom it was attempted. Two patients (15 percent) sustained minor donor site skin graft loss that healed secondarily. In our series of predominantly older patients the donor sites have been relatively inconspicuous at one year follow-up. A functional restoration was achieved in all patients.
<doc id=Wounds/2712206> Empyema thoracis in patients undergoing emergent closed tube thoracostomy for thoracic trauma.  The vast majority of thoracic trauma victims require only observation or tube thoracostomy for definitive treatment of their thoracic injury. Although tube thoracostomy is generally considered a limited intervention, 2 to 25 percent of patients who undergo this procedure develop infectious complications. To determine the incidence and risk factors for the development of empyema thoracis after tube thoracostomy, a retrospective study was undertaken. We found that the development of empyema thoracis was increased in patients whose pleural space was incompletely drained and whose thoracic catheters were in place for a prolonged period.
<doc id=Wounds/9474004> Brachial plexopathy in gunshot wounds and motor vehicle accidents: comparison of electrophysiologic findings.  To characterize the extent and degree of severity in subjects with gunshot wounds (GSWs) to the brachial plexus and to investigate the association between type of injuries and the predominant level involved.A cross-sectional, retrospective review of electrophysiologic data.Electromyography laboratory of a county hospital.Thirty consecutive patients with GSWs and 14 patients with traction brachial plexopathies during a 5-year period (1992 through 1996).The injury was categorized according to the level predominantly involved, and each component of the four major levels of the plexus was analyzed. The association between type of injury and predominant level involved was assessed via two-tailed chi 2 test. The mean number of elements per subject to each level involved was compared between GSW and motor vehicle accident (MVA) patients using unpaired t test.The type of injury (GSW vs MVA) is significantly associated with the level involved. GSWs were implicated in infraclavicular rather than supraclavicular injury. Compared with MVA, the GSW plexopathies had significant lower mean number of components involved at the root and cord levels, but higher at the terminal nerve branches of plexus. In GSWs, nearly two thirds of all components were severely injured and 60% were completely damaged.These findings demonstrate that gunshot plexopathies are characterized with multielement distribution and a mixture of lesions with or without continuity.
<doc id=Wounds/23127335> A comparison of human cord blood- and embryonic stem cell-derived endothelial progenitor cells in the treatment of chronic wounds.  Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) promote new blood vessel formation and increase angiogenesis by secreting growth factors and cytokines in ischemic tissues. Therefore, EPCs have been highlighted as an alternative cell source for wound healing. EPCs can be isolated from various sources, including the bone marrow, cord blood, and adipose tissue. However, several recent studies have reported that isolating EPCs from these sources has limitations, such as the isolation of insufficient cell numbers and the difficulty of expanding these cells in culture. Thus, human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) have generated great interest as an alternative source of EPCs. Previously, we established an efficient preparation method to obtain EPCs from hESCs (hESC-EPCs). These hESC-EPCs secreted growth factors and cytokines, which are known to be important in angiogenesis and wound healing. In this study, we directly compared the capacity of hESC-EPCs and human cord blood-derived EPCs (hCB-EPCs) to benefit wound healing. The number of hESC-EPCs increased during culture and was always higher than the number of hCB-EPCs during the culture period. In addition, the levels of VEGF and Ang-1 secreted by hESC-EPCs were significantly higher than those produced by hCB-EPCs. After transplantation in a mouse dermal excisional wound model, all EPC-transplanted wounds exhibited better regeneration than in the control group. More importantly, we found that the wounds transplanted with hESC-EPCs showed significantly accelerated re-epithelialization. Thus, hESC-EPCs may be a promising cell source for the treatment of chronic wounds.Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
<doc id=Wounds/18220251> Free-tissue transfers for reconstruction of oromandibular area in children.  Currently, free-tissue transfers are commonly used for various reconstructive purposes in adults. However, there is a lack of large series of free flap reconstruction in children, especially for reconstruction of oromandibular defects. Our study aims to share our experience in free-flap reconstruction of some challenging pediatric cases.Pediatric free-flap interventions (<18-year-old) that were performed between 2000 and 2006 in our clinic were retrospectively evaluated. Eighteen free-tissue transfers were performed in 17 pediatric cases. Epidemiologic data, etiology, defects, preferred free flaps, and results have been compared and analyzed.A total of 17 patients (18 free flaps) were analyzed. Mean age was 10.4 years. The etiology was tumor in 11 cases, traffic accident in 5 cases, and gunshot in 1 case. Double-flap transfer was performed to one patient with a devastating shotgun wound and single flap transfers to others. A total of 8 osseous flaps, 7 osteocutaneous flaps, and 3 septocutaneous flaps were transferred. Total superficial flap necrosis was encountered in one flap (5.8%) while partial superficial necrosis was seen on two flaps (11.7%). Sixteen of the 17 cases reconstructed, including the three cases with complications, resulted in good functional and cosmetic outcome. One case was lost in the sixth postoperative month due to septisemia during chemotherapy. All the surviving 16 cases acquired bony fusion, mastication, and speech in addition to good cosmetic results.Pediatric free-tissue transfers are increasing due to the development of better equipment, finer surgical technique, and a better understanding of the unique characteristics of pediatric cases. In our opinion, high success rates with good cosmetic and functional results can be obtained if the specific requirements of the pediatric procedures are met.Copyright 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc. Microsurgery, 2008.
<doc id=Wounds/1948500> Perforating eye injuries in KwaZulu.  Data on 100 consecutive perforating eye injuries treated at Edendale Hospital, Pietermaritzburg, were collected in order to evaluate some of the features of this condition seen in KwaZulu, and also to assess the outcome of current management. Fifty-six of the injuries were due to assault and 44 were accidental. Fifty injuries involved the anterior segment only, and 50 involved the posterior segment. Only 6 eyes achieved a final visual acuity of 6/12 or better, and 44 eyes ended up with no light perception. Factors contributing to the poor visual results in this Third-World situation include the severity of the injuries and the inadequacy of surgical management within the constraints imposed by limited facilities and expertise. More care is needed in selecting patients with posterior segment injuries, in whom useful ambulatory vision may be salvageable, for vitrectomy and retinal detachment repair. The criteria for such selection should include the nature of the injury, the visual acuity, the presence or absence of an afferent pupil defect, the extent of the injury found at the time of repair, the presence and extent of vitreous haemorrhage, and the findings on ultrasonography.
<doc id=Wounds/2743195> Computed tomography in traumatic defects of the diaphragm.  Two patients with traumatic diaphragmatic defects visible on computed tomography are presented. The diagnosis was delayed for several years in both patients. The diagnosis of these acquired diaphragmatic defects is often difficult. Computed tomography can lead to earlier diagnosis by demonstrating the defect in some patients when radiographic studies are not diagnostic.
<doc id=Wounds/1930383> Evaluating needlestick injuries in nursing personnel. Development of a questionnaire.  1. Needlestick injuries are the most common type of occupational injury experienced by nursing personnel. Sixty percent to 90% of needlestick injuries in medical centers are incurred by nurses. 2. Future increases in patient acuity and more advanced technology are likely to increase the risk of nurses experiencing accidental needlesticks. 3. Needle devices that require disassembly of equipment, especially those related to intravenous piggybacks and prefilled cartridge syringes, are placing nurses at an increased risk for injury. 4. Needle-less devices or devices which keep the needle recessed except during intended use have been designed. The assessment instrument can identify needlestick injury incidence and trends and can be used to evaluate and justify the increased costs of purchasing new safety equipment.
<doc id=Wounds/3281445> Medicolegal investigation of an eighteenth century homicide.  The skeleton of an adult man, recovered from an eighteenth century French fort site in Indiana, exhibited a series of sharp force wounds. The lesions, three cranial and one postcranial, had apparently been made by a heavy metal instrument similar to one of the European ax heads discovered elsewhere at the site. In this paper we describe the wounds, argue that the instrument used to create them was a European ax, and offer the opinion that the manner of death in this case was homicide.
<doc id=Wounds/7619457> Assessment and management of manual traumatic enucleation.  Gouging injuries represent a rare, severe form of orbital trauma. We report a case of manual traumatic enucleation.Records of the patient were reviewed.The outcome of this case was loss of the globe with an uncomplicated recovery.Without attention to the particular principles of assessment and management outlined in this report, a satisfactory outcome is not assured.
<doc id=Wounds/7211053> [Prevention of wound infection in open skull and brain injuries].  Measures aimed at the prevention of complications gain foremost importance when timely surgical treatment of a penetrating craniocerebral wound cannot be conducted. Experimental research and clinical experience have shown that the administration of 50 000--100 000 U of an antibiotic (kanamycin, monomycin, hectamycin, chloramphenicol) into the wound soon after an open penetrating injury had been inflicted to the skull and brain protects the wound from microbial contamination. This provides the possibility for postponing the plastic operation of the defect in the dura mater.
<doc id=Wounds/879706> Traumatic splenic rupture.  71 patients with traumatic splenic rupture are reported. Most had severe associated injuries. In 44 patients the mechanism of trauma was blunt, in 10 penetrating, and in 17 iatrogenic, occurring most commonly (11/17) during operations for peptic ulcer. Splenectomy gave use to thrombocytosis which reached its peak about 2 weeks and returned to normal within one month after operation. Postoperative complications occurred in 24 of the 60 surviving patients (40%) of which most, 17 patients (30%) were infectious in origin. One patient developed deep venous thrombosis. Mortality was 16%. Associated injuries were the main cause of death in most patients (9/11), the ruptured spleen being responsible for only 2 deaths. None of the 17 patients with injury to the spleen alone died, whether associated with fractures of the left lower ribs or not. Primary unconsciousness, shock on admission, and multiple injuries, especially renal and hepatic, increased the mortality rate markedly. The necessity of drainage, the possibility of increased susceptibility of splenectomized patients to infection and thromboembolic complications and their prevention are briefly discussed.
<doc id=Wounds/3631362> Workplace homicides of Texas males.  A review of Texas death certificates for 1975-84 identified 779 civilian males whose deaths were homicides that occurred in the workplace. Injuries from firearms caused 81 per cent of the deaths. The overall rate of workplace homicide was 2.1/100,000 male workers/year. Males employed in taxicab service had the highest rate of workplace homicide. 78.2/100,000 male workers/year. Males employed in certain retail trade industries, law enforcement, and the private-security industry also had high rates of workplace homicide. Male workers greater than or equal to 65 years old were at especially high risk, with a workplace-homicide rate 3.5 times that of younger workers. A review of medical examiners' records in five urban counties indicated that 32 per cent of victims who had worked in eating-and-drinking places and 5 per cent of other workers had blood or cerebrospinal-fluid alcohol levels greater than or equal to 0.10 g/dl. These results provide a base for designing effective strategies to prevent workplace homicides.
<doc id=Wounds/12222074> [New possibilities of the use of space technologies in the treatment of children with injuries of the central nervous system].  The computerized stabilography was used to study the role of the visual analyzer (VA) in vertical posture acquisition and specifics of posture implementation by patients with craniocerebral injury (CCI) wearing suit Adele for dynamic proprioception correction (SDPC). Results of the investigation revealed a decreased vertical stability (VS) of CCI patients and a greater reliance on VA, which may be a compensatory instrument. Following the SDPC course, vertical stability was improved and the VA role in posture acquisition normalized suggesting alteration of the interanalyzer interaction in CCI patients owing to the treatment of proprioception impulsation.
<doc id=Wounds/24119889> Fatal gunshot wound to the head: the impact of aggressive management.  Patients with fatal gunshot wounds (GSWs) to the head often have poor outcomes but are ideal candidates for organ donation. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of aggressive management on organ donation in patient with fatal GSWs to the head.A 5-year review of all patients at a trauma center with GSWs to the head was performed. The primary outcome was organ donation after fatal GSW to the head.A total of 98 patients with fatal GSWs to the head were identified. The rate of potential organ donation was 70%, of whom 49% eventually donated 72 solid organs. Twenty-five percent of patients were not considered eligible for donation as a result of disseminated intravascular coagulopathy. The T4 protocol lead to significant organ procurement rates (odds ratio, 3.6; 95% confidence interval, 1.3 to 9.6; P = .01). Failures to organ donation in eligible patients were due to lack of family consent and cardiac arrest.Organ donation after fatal GSW to the head is a legitimate goal. Management goals should focus on early aggressive resuscitation and correction of coagulopathy.Published by Elsevier Inc.
<doc id=Wounds/16689847> Computed tomography to assess possible cardiac lead perforation.  Chest radiography and echocardiography are standard techniques to evaluate possible extracardiac migration of pacemaker and defibrillator leads, but computed tomography (CT) scanning may be a helpful adjunct.Chest CT using a 64-detector helical scanner was performed in three cases of lead perforation where standard techniques did not yield a definitive diagnosis. In two patients, a cardiac CT protocol was followed, the primary indication for which was to assess the lead tip location. On one patient, persistent chest pain several days after the implant led to a chest CT to rule out a pulmonary embolism, and the extracardiac lead was found fortuitously.In all cases, CT scan images resulted in a definitive diagnosis of extracardiac migration of pacemaker or defibrillator leads. One patient had an extracardiac atrial lead which was dysfunctional but not associated with symptoms. The risks of repositioning were felt to outweigh potential benefits in this patient with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and treatment was conservative. The other two patients had extracardiac ventricular leads and were symptomatic with pleuritic chest pain. These patients were treated by lead revision with no evidence of bleeding into the pericardial space. All patients did well and none have suffered any further complications.CT images aid in the diagnosis of lead perforation when other modalities are nondiagnostic. Recent advances in CT technology have been associated with increased use of this technique for evaluation of chest pain, analysis of which should now include location of intracardiac leads.
<doc id=Wounds/11716271> Intrauterine stab leading to a radial nerve palsy.  Penetrating injuries to the gravid uterus are rare. This report documents a fetus that sustained a complete radial nerve palsy (a hemopneumothorax) after a knife wound (complete nerve transection is suspected). Surgical exploration of the nerve was delayed because of respiratory distress. Six weeks later, when exploration was scheduled to be undertaken, some recovery was noted, and exploration was thus deferred. The injury recovered completely in the absence of formal repair.
<doc id=Wounds/6869678> Thoracic air gun injuries in children.  Four cases of thoracic air gun injuries in children are presented. Potentially lethal injuries with penetration of the heart and lung occurred. All of the children were treated with surgical removal of the pellet, two from the ventricular myocardium, one from the right atrial appendage, and one from the right middle lobe of the lung. All of the patients survived and had an uneventful recovery. The need for regulating the use of air guns by children has been alluded to, in addition to the need for public education regarding the potential danger of air gun injuries.
<doc id=Wounds/22558734> Lessons from managing an injured suspected pirate onboard a Role 1 medical facility.  The embarkation of detainees is complex and medical requirements and ethical considerations can collide with operational requirements. Morally and ethically the correct route of action is always to disembark the patient at the earliest opportunity to a first rate medical facility; however this is not always possible for a variety of geographical, operational, financial and political reasons. It is ultimately a command decision utilising the best advice that the Medical Officer can provide. It is important that Commanding Officers and Medical Officers have a strong working relationship and understand each other's responsibilities and constraints.
<doc id=Wounds/26854075> The incidence, spectrum and outcomes of traumatic bladder injuries within the Pietermaritzburg Metropolitan Trauma Service.  The purpose of this study is to provide a comprehensive overview of the incidence, spectrum and outcomes of traumatic bladder injury in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa, and to identify the current optimal investigation and management of patients with traumatic bladder injuries.The Pietermaritzburg Metropolitan Trauma Service (PMTS) trauma registry was interrogated retrospectively for all traumatic bladder injuries between 1 January 2012 and 31 October 2014.Of 8129 patients treated by the PMTS over the study period, 58 patients (0.7% or 6.5 cases per 1,000,000 population per year) had bladder injuries, 65% caused by penetrating trauma and 35% by blunt trauma. The majority (60%) were intraperitoneal bladder ruptures (IBRs), followed by 22% extraperitoneal bladder ruptures (EBRs). There was a high rate of associated injury, with blunt trauma being associated with pelvic fracture and penetrating trauma being associated with rectum and small intestine injuries. The mortality rate was 5%. Most bladder injuries were diagnosed at surgery or by computed tomography (CT) scan. All IBRs were managed operatively, as well as 38% of EBRs; the remaining EBRs were managed by catheter drainage and observation. In the majority of operative repairs, the bladder was closed in two layers, and was drained with only a urethral catheter. Most patients (91%) were managed definitively by the surgeons on the trauma service.Traumatic bladder rupture caused by blunt or penetrating trauma is rare and mortality is due to associated injuries. CT scan is the investigative modality of choice. In our environment IBR is more common than EBR and requires operative management. Most EBRs can be managed non-operatively, and then require routine follow-up cystography. Simple traumatic bladder injuries can be managed definitively by trauma surgeons. A dedicated urological surgeon should be consulted for complex injuries.Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
<doc id=Wounds/25605612> Psychosocial work characteristics and needle stick and sharps injuries among nurses in China: a prospective study.  Psychosocial work characteristics may be associated with needle stick and sharps injuries (NSIs) among nurses. The current evidence is, however, sparse, inconclusive, and mainly limited to cross-sectional investigations. We aimed to contribute prospective data.We conducted a prospective study among 1,791 female hospital nurses from China. At baseline and at a 1-year follow-up, fourteen psychosocial work characteristics were assessed by the short Copenhagen Psychosocial Questionnaire. At follow-up, any NSI in the workplace during the previous year was measured by participants' self-reports. We quantified associations between (1) psychosocial work characteristics at baseline and NSIs at follow-up by multivariate relative risks (Poisson regression) and (2) NSIs reported at follow-up with psychosocial work characteristics at follow-up (multivariate linear regression, among others, adjusted for psychosocial work characteristics at baseline).The only psychosocial work characteristic associated with a slightly increased risk of subsequent NSIs was quantitative demands. Examining the opposite direction of effect, we found that NSIs during the year preceding the follow-up were associated with slightly worse ratings of seven psychosocial work characteristics at follow-up (i.e., influence at work, meaning of work, commitment to the workplace, quality of leadership, social support, social community at work, and job insecurity).Overall, our study does not provide compelling evidence for an association of psychosocial work characteristics and subsequent occurrence of NSIs. By contrast, experience of NSIs may predict less favorable perceptions of psychosocial work characteristics.
<doc id=Wounds/3874994> [Histopathology of perforating eye injuries].  Perforating eye injuries endanger the eye due to the loss of internal structures; hypertonia; the proliferation of vascular tissue, glia, and epithelium; hemorrhages, and inflammations. This is illustrated with histologic pictures.
<doc id=Wounds/17310407> Organ models in wound ballistics: experimental study.  Effects of various types and diameters of guns and related treatment principles are different. Our study was performed to experimentally demonstrate the effects of different gunshots in body tissues.9x19 mm hand-gun and 7.62x51 mm G-3 infantry rifle were used in the study. Injury models were created through hand-gun and rifle shootings at isolated soft tissue, lower extremity, liver and intestine tissue simulants made of ballistic candle. High-speed cameras were used to capture 1000 frames per second. Images were examined and wound mechanisms were evaluated.It was observed that the colon content distributed more within the surrounding tissues by the rifle shootings comparing with hand-gun shootings and could be an infection source due to the large size of the cavity in the colon. Especially when the bullets hitting the bone were investigated, it was seen that much more tissue injury occurs with high speed bullets due to bullet deformation and fragmentation. However, no significant difference was found between the effect of hand-gun and rifle bullets passing through the extremity without hitting the bone.To know the type of the gun that caused the injury and its characteristics will allow to estimate severity and size of the injury before the treatment and to focus on different alternatives of treatment. Therefore, use of appropriate models is required in experimental studies.
<doc id=Wounds/12532680> [Practical application of the Injury Severity Score (ISS) in expert forensic testimony].  The retrospective analysis of the autopsy records of 50 homicides showed that the Injury Severity Score (ISS), a numerical scoring system initially developed to quantify the severity of injuries sustained in road traffic accidents, can also be useful for objectively describing and ranking the overall severity of trauma with regard to forensic issues. The present case report illustrates to what extent the ISS can help to assess the contribution of each assailant in homicides committed by several perpetrators. In the case presented the court was convinced that one perpetrator had inflicted four deep stab wounds to the victim's face (each with bony lesions), 2 stabs to the chest piercing the right lower pulmonary lobe and causing a haemothorax of 200 ml, an abdominal stab wound without involvement of a parenchymatous organ as well as multiple defence wounds of the arms. Thereafter, a second perpetrator was thought to have inflicted several heavy blows with a full water bottle causing severe contusions on the right side of the forehead, the chin, the left side of the face and a spider's web fracture of the frontal bone. Using the ISS an injury severity score of 24 was assigned to the first complex of injuries and a score of 10 to the second complex. The forensic conclusions with regard to prognosis and lethal outcome are discussed.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/886574> The use of student ratings in multiinstructor courses.  In this study the authors examined the efficacy of using student ratings of teaching effectiveness in multiinstructor courses. Specific issues addressed included student ability to identify differences in faculty teaching effectiveness, the consistency of student rating obtained immediately following each lecture with those obtained at the conclusion of the course, and the relationship between individual faculty ratings and overall course ratings. A random sample of students rated each of 14 lectures in a psychopathology course using a 13-item rating scale immediately after each lecture and again at the end of the course. Results indicated that differences in faculty teaching effectiveness are measurable, ratings of individual faculty are relatively stable over over time, and rating of individual faculty are separable from those of the course as a whole. Implications of this research for use of student ratings are also discussed.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/16259396> Virtual reality and medicine--from the cockpit to the operating room: are we there yet?  Teaching medicine to medical students, physicians in training and nurses is a challenging task that has remained unchanged for decades. The airline industry has achieved a great deal of safety and quality in a technically challenging environment. Many believe that their outstanding achievement is due to team training and crew resource management using simulators and dedicated training programs. Many experts in the medical profession believe that adopting the same strategies in teaching medical students and trainees could achieve significant reductions in medical errors and improve the quality of patient care. This article explores the role of teaching medicine using virtual reality in a multitude of medical specialties and outlines the use of simulation training at Saint Louis University.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/17761620> Teaching alternatives to the standard inferior alveolar nerve block in dental education: outcomes in clinical practice.  Surveys were sent to Harvard School of Dental Medicine students and graduates from the classes of 2000 through 2006 to determine their current primary means of achieving mandibular anesthesia. Orthodontists and orthodontic residents were excluded. All subjects received clinical training in the conventional inferior alveolar nerve block and two alternative techniques (the Akinosi mandibular block and the Gow-Gates mandibular block) during their predoctoral dental education. This study tests the hypothesis that students and graduates who received training in the conventional inferior alveolar nerve block, the Akinosi mandibular block, and the Gow-Gates mandibular block will report more frequent current utilization of alternatives to the conventional inferior alveolar nerve block than clinicians trained in the conventional technique only. At the 95 percent confidence level, we estimated that between 3.7 percent and 16.1 percent (mean=8.5 percent) of clinicians trained in using the Gow-Gates technique use this injection technique primarily, and between 35.4 percent and 56.3 percent (mean=47.5 percent) of those trained in the Gow-Gates method never use this technique. At the same confidence level, between 0.0 percent and 3.8 percent (mean=0.0 percent) of clinicians trained in using the Akinosi technique use this injection clinical technique primarily, and between 62.2 percent and 81.1 percent (mean=72.3 percent) of those trained in the Akinosi method never use this technique. No control group that was completely untrained in the Gow-Gates or Akinosi techniques was available for comparison. However, we presume that zero percent of clinicians who have not been trained in a given technique will use the technique in clinical practice. The confidence interval for the Gow-Gates method excludes this value, while the confidence interval for the Akinosi technique includes zero percent. We conclude that, in the study population, formal clinical training in the Gow-Gates and Akinosi injection techniques lead to a small but significant increase in current primary utilization of the Gow-Gates technique. No significant increase in current primary utilization of the Akinosi technique was found.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/23035994> What does a good lifestyle mean to you? Perspectives of 4th-year U.S. medical students with military service obligations in 2009.  A specialties' lifestyle is known to be important for specialty selection, but how medical students define this concept is unknown.The aim of this article is to determine how 4th-year medical students perceive lifestyle of specialties.All 4th-year U.S. medical students graduating in 2009 with a military service obligation were invited to participate in an electronic survey. Responses to an open-ended question, When someone says 'That specialty has a good lifestyle,' what does that mean to you? were classified into themes by a consensus of the authors and then compared to the students' selected specialty.Response rate for the questionnaire was 46% (369 of 797). Four themes describing lifestyle emerged: schedule control (67% of students), off time (53%), financial aspects (48%), and work life (26%).Medical students' definition of a good lifestyle includes four themes, which should be used in future research of the lifestyle factor of specialty selection.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/8452584> Assessment of clinical competence of medical students by using standardized patients with musculoskeletal problems.  To assess medical students' clinical competence in addressing musculoskeletal problems.Nineteen junior medical students completed 2 standardized patient-based tests structured to capture their clinical decisions from undiagnosed chief complaint to management.No student approached the highest possible score on either test, and the students as a group received less than half the possible points on 5 important aspects of diagnostic reasoning.Standardized patient-based tests can be structured to provide enlightening information about medical students' clinical competence with regard to musculoskeletal problems.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/27338216> Concordance Revisited: A Multispecialty Appraisal of Concordant Preliminary Abdominopelvic CT Reports.  To determine whether resident abdominopelvic CT reports considered prospectively concordant with the final interpretation are also considered concordant by other blinded specialists and abdominal radiologists.In this institutional review board-approved retrospective cohort study, 119 randomly selected urgent abdominopelvic CT examinations with a resident preliminary report deemed prospectively concordant by the signing faculty were identified. Nine blinded specialists from Emergency Medicine, Internal Medicine, and Abdominal Radiology reviewed the preliminary and final reports and scored the preliminary report with respect to urgent findings as follows: 1.) concordant; 2.) discordant with minor differences; 3.) discordant with major differences that do not alter patient management; or 4.) discordant with major differences that do alter patient management. Predicted management resulting from scores of 4 was recorded. Consensus was defined as majority agreement within a specialty. Consensus major discrepancy rates (ie, scores 3 or 4) were compared to the original major discrepancy rate of 0% (0/119) using the McNemar test.Consensus scores of 4 were assigned in 18% (21/119, P < .001, Emergency Medicine), 5% (6/119, P = .03, Internal Medicine), and 13% (16/119, P < .001, Abdominal Radiology) of examinations. Consensus scores of 3 or 4 were assigned in 31% (37/119, P < .001, Emergency Medicine), 14% (17/119, P < .001, Internal Medicine), and 18% (22/119, P < .001, Abdominal Radiology). Predicted management alterations included hospital status (0-4%), medical therapy (1%-4%), imaging (1%-10%), subspecialty consultation (3%-13%), nonsurgical procedure (3%), operation (1%-3%), and other (0-3%).The historical low major discrepancy rate for urgent findings between resident and faculty radiologists is likely underreported.Copyright © 2016 American College of Radiology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/26562644> Socializing Identity Through Practice: A Mixed Methods Approach to Family Medicine Resident Perspectives on Uncertainty.  Uncertainty is a central theme in the practice of medicine and particularly primary care. This study explored how family medicine resident physicians react to uncertainty in their practice.This study incorporated a two-phase mixed methods approach, including semi-structured personal interviews (n=21) and longitudinal self-report surveys (n=21) with family medicine residents.Qualitative analysis showed that though residents described uncertainty as an implicit part of their identity, they still developed tactics to minimize or manage uncertainty in their practice. Residents described increasing comfort with uncertainty the longer they practiced and anticipated that growth continuing throughout their careers. Quantitative surveys showed that reactions to uncertainty were more positive over time; however, the difference was not statistically significant.Qualitative and quantitative results show that as family medicine residents practice medicine their perception of uncertainty changes. To reduce uncertainty, residents use relational information-seeking strategies. From a broader view of practice, residents describe uncertainty neutrally, asserting that uncertainty is simply part of the practice of family medicine.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/7694979> Description and results of a needs assessment in preparation for the Surgeons as educators course.  In August 1993 the American College of Surgeons sponsored a course entitled Surgeons as Educators (SAE) aimed at equipping academic surgeons with the knowledge and skills necessary to enhance surgical education administration, curriculum, teaching, and evaluation.The instructional design model used to construct the course called for a formal needs assessment to determine the importance, current skill level, and priority of what needed to be learned to be an effective educator. The needs assessment was accomplished using a job analysis and questionnaire approach. The 68-item questionnaire was mailed to 320 academic surgeons representing eight medical schools.A 62% response rate was achieved. Results indicated the education-related tasks or activities that faculty felt were important to their careers, as well as their perceived level of development in each area. Descriptive statistics were used to summarize the responses that were critical to the SAE faculty in helping prioritize, sequence, and time ration course content. Collective results became the foundation for developing the SAE curriculum by the course's five faculty members.A well-done needs assessment does not necessarily guarantee course success; however, it is the first and critical step to planning an educationally sound faculty development course or program designed for adult learners.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/19187554> A web-based simulation of a longitudinal clinic used in a 4-week ambulatory rotation: a cohort study.  Residency training takes place primarily on inpatient wards. In the absence of a resident continuity clinic, internal medicine residents rely on block rotations to learn about continuity of care. Alternate methods to introduce continuity of care are needed.A web-based tool, Continuity of Care Online Simulations (COCOS), was designed for use in a one-month, postgraduate clinical rotation in endocrinology. It is an interactive tool that simulates the continuing care of any patient with a chronic endocrine disease. Twenty-three residents in internal medicine participated in a study to investigate the effects of using COCOS during a clinical rotation in endocrinology on pre-post knowledge test scores and self-assessment of confidence.Compared to residents who did the rotation alone, residents who used COCOS during the rotation had significantly higher improvements in test scores (% increase in pre-post test scores +21.6 [standard deviation, SD, 8.0] vs. +5.9 [SD 6.8]; p < .001). Test score improvements were most pronounced for less commonly seen conditions. There were no significant differences in changes in confidence. Residents rated COCOS very highly, recommending its use as a standard part of the rotation and throughout residency.A stand-alone web-based tool can be incorporated into an existing clinical rotation to help residents learn about continuity of care. It has the most potential to teach residents about topics that are less commonly seen during a clinical rotation. The adaptable, web-based format allows the creation of cases for most chronic medical conditions.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/14700418> General practitioners' knowledge on childhood developmental and behavioural disorders.  Childhood developmental and behavioural disorders are increasingly being recognised, with high demands for earlier diagnosis and intervention. In Singapore, referrals to the Child Development Unit, KK Women's and Children's Hospital, originate mainly from primary health care practitioners, who therefore should have adequate baseline knowledge of normal development as well as common developmental and behavioural disorders.A pilot study, using a questionnaire survey, was conducted, with the aim of assessing existing knowledge in childhood developmental and behavioural paediatrics amongst a cohort of general practitioners (GPs) in Singapore. True/False questions on normal development as well as developmental disorders such as autistic spectrum disorder (ASD), attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and learning disability, were structured. These disorders were selected because of their relatively higher prevalence.A total of 48 GPs were surveyed, representing 2% of non-specialists practising in the private sector. The median total score (T-score) was 9 (range 6 to 13) of a possible 14. Only just over a-third of the group achieved the pass rate (defined arbitrarily as 75%) for T-score, with two-thirds replying correctly to all questions on normal development. Scores for factual ASD/ADHD questions were also not ideal, with some myths being believed as truths.The scores reflect knowledge and educational deficits in developmental paediatric medicine amongst the study cohort. Expected to provide holistic care and counselling, these GPs are currently insufficiently equipped with the necessary knowledge and skills to support families of special-needs children. Education and training programmes in this aspect of paediatric medicine are clearly needed, through the organisation of CME lectures and incorporation of various developmental topics into the training curriculum. This will enable early identification and diagnosis of childhood developmental and behavioural disorders, which will in turn allow greater optimisation of potential and functionality in these special-needs children.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/24586591> Problem-based training improves recognition of patient hazards by advanced medical students during chart review: a randomized controlled crossover study.  Patient chart review is the gold standard for detection of potential patient hazards (i.e. medication errors or failure to follow up actionable results) in both routine clinical care and patient safety research. However, advanced medical students' ability to read patient charts and to identify patient hazards is rather poor. We therefore investigated whether it is possible to teach advanced medical students how to identify patient hazards independent of context (i.e. cancer versus cardiac failure) in patient charts.All fifth-year medical students in one semester (n = 123) were randomized into two groups. One group (IC) received a patient chart review-training first and then a control-intervention and the other group (CI) received the control-intervention first and then the patient chart review-training. Before and after the teaching sessions, students reviewed different scenarios with standardized fictional patient charts containing 12 common patient hazards. Two blinded raters rated the students' notes for any patient hazard addressed in the notes using a checklist. The students were blinded to the study question and design. There was no external funding and no harm for the participating students.A total of 35 data sets had to be excluded because of missing data. Overall, the students identified 17% (IQR 8-29%) of the patient hazards before the training and 56% (IQR 41-66%) of the patient hazards after the training. At the second assessment students identified more patient hazards than at the first. They identified even more in the third. The effect was most pronounced after the patient chart review training (all p<.01).Patient chart review exercises and problem-based patient chart review training improve students' abilities to recognize patient hazards independent of context during patient chart review.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/26073715> How Surgical Trainees Handle Catastrophic Errors: A Qualitative Study.  Surgical trainees are often subject to the negative consequences of medical error, and it is therefore important to determine how trainees cope with error and to find ways of supporting trainees when catastrophic events occur. This article examines how trainees interpret catastrophic surgical outcomes and ways to provide support for trainees who have experienced catastrophic events.Totally 23 semistructured interviews were conducted with surgical trainees. Interviews were conducted in English and subjected to modified thematic analysis.A tertiary care hospital in Toronto, Canada.Interviews were completed with 23 surgery residents. Potential participants were recruited through communications via the Department of Surgery and volunteered to take part in the study.Totally 5 themes emerged: (1) catastrophic errors usually represent system deficiencies; (2) catastrophic events provide lessons for future practice; (3) many trainees did not feel comfortable speaking with the surgical staff; (4) counseling services should be offered to help a subset of trainees; and (5) the culture of surgery may act as a barrier to trainees seeking help.This study demonstrates the importance of providing support for the emotional needs of surgical trainees who have experienced catastrophic surgical errors and the continued need for mentoring by staff surgeons.Copyright © 2015 Association of Program Directors in Surgery. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/17386219> [Flu vaccination in healthcare workers].  The aim of this study was to determine the trends in yearly vaccination coverage in healthcare workers.Cross-sectional epidemiological study over fifteen seasons (1990-2005). Overall vaccination coverage and coverage by professional category was estimated annually. The chi-square test and Mantel-Haenszel test for linear trend were used for the statistical analysis.The greatest vaccination coverage was in the 2003-04 season (15.9%; 95% CI: 14.8-17) and the 2005-06 season (16.3%; 95% CI: 15.3-17.4). The medical staff and residents showed the highest coverage (30.1%). A positive trend was observed along the period.An increasing trend in influenza vaccination coverage has been observed in healthcare workers.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/11123594> The development of practice professional development plans from the postgraduate education allowance: a discussion of the causes and implications.  Practice professional development plans (PPDPs) began to replace the Postgraduate Education Allowance (PGEA) for general practitioners in England and Wales from April 2000. The origin of this change lies with those with educational expertise who have been concerned that the PGEA fails to encourage GPs to define their own learning needs, fails to encourage practice-based learning and fails to influence their working behaviour. The policy has been influenced however, by wider political developments which view PPDPs as a means to ensure national standards are met, to reassure the public, provide uniformity and deal with underperforming doctors. This mixture of influences has resulted in conflicting areas within PPDPs. There are different emphases on whether learning needs should be defined from the perspective of the individual or from the perspective of wider needs within the NHS. There are conflicting views about the desirability of multi- or uniprofessional learning and conflicting views about whether PPDPs are appropriate for dealing with failing doctors. PPDPs are based on a particular theory of adult learning - andragogy - which arguably fails to account for wider, richer and more significant forms of learning.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/14523662> Assessing students' communication and interpersonal skills across evaluation settings.  Medical students' interpersonal and communication skills are a fundamental dimension of their clinical competence and will be measured on the anticipated US Medical Licensure Examination (USMLE) standardized patient (SP) exam. We compared students' performance on measures of SP satisfaction on a third-year family medicine Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE) with measures of SP satisfaction on a fourth-year Clinical Practice Examination (CPX).A total of 127 students completed both the clerkship OSCE and a CPX. The CPX was a pilot of the National Board of Medical Examiners Standardized Patient Exam. To assess students' interpersonal skills, both exams used modified versions of the American Board of Internal Medicine Patient Satisfaction Questionnaire. Students' scores were standardized, and correlations were calculated. A logistic regression model examined the ability of the OSCE to predict poor performance on the CPX.The correlation between the OSCE and CPX patient satisfaction scores was.08. There was no significant predictive ability of the OSCE for poor performance on the CPX.Our study calls into question the ability of a routine end-of-clerkship OSCE to identify students' interpersonal skills abilities on fourth-year clinical performance exams and potentially that component of the anticipated USMLE SP exam.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/16488433> Teaching surgical decision-making: an interactive, web-based approach.  Skillful surgical care demands proper patient assessment and decision-making. These skills are honed through long hours and years of clinical practice. A decrease in work hours is reducing the number of cases managed by medical students and residents. We have developed a set of interactive, web-based teaching modules to help fill this gap.The modules aim to teach surgical decision-making in a convenient, nonthreatening manner. Surgical case material is presented in a graphically rich environment, including video and sound to enhance realism. At the end of each web-page, the user must make a management decision. The correct answer is subsequently provided with immediate feedback. Medical students used and evaluated the modules during their surgical clerkships. Additionally, students took a pretest and 1-week delayed posttest after completing the modules to assess the program's efficacy.Eight modules involving pediatric and general surgery have been completed. Medical students gave high ratings to the quality of the modules and found the interactive format both engaging and educationally effective. Eighty-seven percent of medical students rated the program's educational value as above average to excellent. On pre- and posttest analysis, students' scores improved an average of 24.8% (P < 0.001).Students enjoy web-based educational material. Additional modules covering a range of surgical topics are in development. Web-based modules appear to be an effective clinical teaching tool, well-suited for integration into the clinical curriculum.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/17785646> Medicine residents' understanding of the biostatistics and results in the medical literature.  Physicians depend on the medical literature to keep current with clinical information. Little is known about residents' ability to understand statistical methods or how to appropriately interpret research outcomes.To evaluate residents' understanding of biostatistics and interpretation of research results.Multiprogram cross-sectional survey of internal medicine residents.Percentage of questions correct on a biostatistics/study design multiple-choice knowledge test.The survey was completed by 277 of 367 residents (75.5%) in 11 residency programs. The overall mean percentage correct on statistical knowledge and interpretation of results was 41.4% (95% confidence interval [CI], 39.7%-43.3%) vs 71.5% (95% CI, 57.5%-85.5%) for fellows and general medicine faculty with research training (P < .001). Higher scores in residents were associated with additional advanced degrees (50.0% [95% CI, 44.5%-55.5%] vs 40.1% [95% CI, 38.3%-42.0%]; P < .001); prior biostatistics training (45.2% [95% CI, 42.7%-47.8%] vs 37.9% [95% CI, 35.4%-40.3%]; P = .001); enrollment in a university-based training program (43.0% [95% CI, 41.0%-45.1%] vs 36.3% [95% CI, 32.6%-40.0%]; P = .002); and male sex (44.0% [95% CI, 41.4%-46.7%] vs 38.8% [95% CI, 36.4%-41.1%]; P = .004). On individual knowledge questions, 81.6% correctly interpreted a relative risk. Residents were less likely to know how to interpret an adjusted odds ratio from a multivariate regression analysis (37.4%) or the results of a Kaplan-Meier analysis (10.5%). Seventy-five percent indicated they did not understand all of the statistics they encountered in journal articles, but 95% felt it was important to understand these concepts to be an intelligent reader of the literature.Most residents in this study lacked the knowledge in biostatistics needed to interpret many of the results in published clinical research. Residency programs should include more effective biostatistics training in their curricula to successfully prepare residents for this important lifelong learning skill.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/17186440> A gain in cultural competence through an international acupuncture elective.  This study describes an international acupuncture elective and its impact on medical students' development of cultural competence.Collaborating with Chinese colleagues, we created a 4-week elective that teaches medical students about acupuncture in its native cultural environment. Three focus groups were conducted to elicit students' experiences.Students' reflections indicated that studying an alternative medical system in its own cultural setting helped them become open to other medical beliefs and realize the importance of culture in health care delivery. Further, being linguistically isolated allowed students to personally experience what it is like for those patients with limited language proficiency.Studying an alternative medical system while immersed in another culture maybe an effective way to enhance cultural competence.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/2290883> The problem of integrating biological and psychodynamic views in psychotherapeutic training of physicians.  A clinical seminar was arranged for the purpose of examining the special problems of doctors undergoing supplementary training in psychotherapy. Diagnostic and therapeutic problems analyzed during the seminar could be attributed to a one-sided overemphasis of either somatic or psychodynamic findings. The physician tends to administer only pharmacotherapy for illness of supposed organic origin, and only psychotherapy for disorders of supposed psychological origin. Yet most of mental diseases require a synthesis of both biological and psychological procedures. There is no special psychotherapeutic technique, which distinguishes the medical psychotherapist but the ability to integrate psychological and somatic perspectives of the patient.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/22098837> Laparoscopic resection for gastric carcinoma: Western experience.  There has been much speculation regarding differences in outcome for patients who have gastric cancer in the Eastern versus Western world. Among other factors, these differences have contributed to a unique cohort of patients and experience in the Western staging/evaluation of gastric cancer and in the application of minimally invasive approaches for treatment. This review summarizes the current state of laparoscopic approaches for the staging and treatment of gastric adenocarcinoma for patients presenting in Western countries, with their associated unique presentation, comorbidities, and outcomes.Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/22888705> [From the history of military-medical education in XVIII century].  The article deals with the development of national medical education. The above materials are based mainly on archival material, published documents and publications of military history topics. The authors have shown that even with the publication of the decree on the construction (01.24.1715), and the tab (Spring 1715), Overland, and hospitals Admiralty in St. Petersburg, Peter the Great planned to their clinical status. However, construction was delayed until 1732, when it became a possibility of teaching, and almost immediately was royally endorsed a report on the state Medical Collegium, which determined the number of teaching staff and students. In the 1730's attempts to prepare highly qualified teachers of special schools for the hospital, and in 1742 already appears first full-time professor. Completed the period of formation can be considered in 1754, when P.Z.Kondoidi signed a decree on a new preparation for doctors with a 7-year period of training.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/22851024> Helping international medical graduates engage in effective feedback.  Timely, specific, behaviorally-based feedback is a cornerstone of medical education. The authors review basic tenets of effective feedback delivery in the context of potential challenges faced by (non-United States) international medical graduates (IMGs).The authors provide a brief summary of the elements of effective feedback, with illustrations of potential barriers for IMGs.Many IMGs were trained in a hierarchical system, where feedback was delivered publicly, in a manner associated with shame and embarrassment. These experiences, combined with the challenge of functioning in a second language and anxieties over exposing weaknesses, present some barriers that make it more difficult for them to participate in feedback inquiry, self-reflection, and reciprocal feedback.These challenges can be mitigated by acknowledging the anxieties that learners may have, fostering a learning culture that values feedback as an expected and important part of all learning, ensuring that all (learners and supervisors) are trained in feedback skills, and clear setting of expectations.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/10816341> Factors affecting improvement on the American Board of Surgery In-Training Exam (ABSITE).  American Board of Surgery In-Training Exam (ABSITE) performance can be used to assess resident knowledge and to evaluate surgical curriculum. To determine factors that lead to improved resident ABSITE performance, a prospective study was performed.Thirty-four surgical residents in Program Years 2-5 completed pre- and a post-ABSITE questionnaires about their anxiety, self-efficacy, physical preparation, and academic preparation for the ABSITE. Department records were used to determine resident probationary status and conference attendance. A preliminary analysis of ABSITE scores indicated a significant improvement between 1998 and 1999 percentile scores (paired t = -2. 25, P = 0.03; m = 11.9, SD = 30.5, median = 7). An improvement in percentile rank score was calculated and used as the dependent variable in a stepwise regression analysis. The following served as independent variables: previous exam performance, anxiety, probationary status, amount of sleep before exam, confidence to score in the 25th and the 50th percentiles, and attendance at the three conferences rated most valuable by the residents.Results of the regression analysis demonstrate that all factors account for 62.3% of the variance in improvement scores. A stepwise analysis indicated that the combination of attendance (40.2%) and previous performance (18.3%) was significant in explaining 58.5% of the variance in improvement scores. Furthermore, Pearson's correlations indicated that probationary status (+.58, P = 0.001), anxiety (+0.53, P = 0.001), amount of study (+0.61, P = 0.001), past ABSITE performance (-0.60, P = 0.001), and conference attendance (+0. 56, P = 0.001) were correlated with ABSITE improvement.This study demonstrates that resident individual effort, past ABSITE performance, and academic conference attendance have led to resident ABSITE improvement.Copyright 2000 Academic Press.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/11765824> Anaglyphic three-dimensional stereoscopic printing: revival of an old method for anatomical and surgical teaching and reporting.  The authors describe how to use the three-dimensional (3D) anaglyphic method to produce stereoscopic prints for anatomical and surgical teaching and reports preparation by using currently available nonprofessional photographic and computer methods. As with any other method of producing stereoscopic images, the anaglyphic procedure is based on the superimposition of two slightly different images of the object to be reproduced, one seen more from a left-sided point of view and the other seen more from a right-sided point of view. The pictures are obtained using a single camera, which following the first shot can be slid along a special bar for the second shot, or by using two cameras affixed to a surgical microscope. After the images have been distinguished from each other by applying different complementary color dyes, the images are scanned and superimposed on each other with the aid of nonprofessional imaging-manipulation software used on a standard personal computer (PC), and are printed using a standard printer. To be seen stereoscopically, glasses with colored lenses, normally one red and one blue, have to be used. Stereoscopic 3D anaglyphic prints can be produced using standard photographic and PC equipment; after some training, the prints can be easily reproduced without significant cost and are particularly helpful to disclose the 3D character of anatomical structures.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/18338304> A modified goldfrank sniffing bar improves accuracy in identifying simulated toxins in a case-based teaching model.  To determine if olfactory analysis of toxin proxies aid in the identification of poisons when compared to case histories alone.A convenience sample of 42 emergency medicine residents participated in a prospective single-blind observational study using a sniffing bar designed with the technique described by Goldfrank et.al. Each subject received 12 written cases describing a patient with a chemical exposure. Ten chemicals with odors corresponding to a specific case history and 2 chemical case controls with no odor comprised the sniffing bar. Each subject was asked to identify the toxin first by reading the case history alone, then again after smelling the corresponding odor. All subjects were asked to record their level of confidence for each case before and after the addition of the sniffing bar using a 5-point Likert scale. Percentages correct before and after the sniffing bar intervention were calculated and two-tailed p-values and 95% confidence intervals were measured. Continuous comparative variables such as the means of the Likert scale confidence measurements were analyzed with the two-tailed t-test.Median percentage of toxins correctly identified was 64.3% (range 9.5-97.6) when based on case description alone and 86.9% (range 9.5-95.2) with addition of the sniffing bar. The percentage of initially incorrect identification reversed after additional data provided by the sniffing bar was 11.5% (range 0-14). Of the 10 actual toxins, correct identification of 6 achieved statistical significance after introduction of the sniffing bar (p=0.0017; 95% CI 4.6-11.4). There was no association between level of training and improved accuracy with use of the sniffing bar, and overall confidence did not improve significantly after addition of the sniffing bar.Diagnostic accuracy of poisons in case-based scenarios is improved with the use of a sniffing bar. The sniffing bar is a useful adjunct to a traditional case-based emergency medicine toxicology teaching curriculum.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/8022080> [Role of clinical laboratory physicians in clinical hematology].  The specialty for laboratory hematology has been difficult to define in Japan, since both the clinical laboratory physician and clinical hematologist usually engage in this field. I propose herein that the specialty for laboratory hematology belongs to laboratory medicine. This makes it possible for the clinical laboratory physician to provide active medical assistance for laboratory diagnosis of hematological disorders so that the clinical hematologist can effectively perform practical management of the patient. For this purpose, I describe the program of postgraduate education for doctors in laboratory hematology. General instructional objectives (GIOs) and specific behavioral objectives (SBOs) are proposed to set the education program for clinical laboratory physicians and to establish the specialty of laboratory hematology in Japan. For the establishment of this system, the committee for the Japanese educational program for the medical board should authorize this newly developed conception for the clinical laboratory physicians who work in the hematology laboratory.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/8333438> The fourth-year medical school curriculum: recommendations of the Association of Professors of Gynecology and Obstetrics and the Council on Resident Education in Obstetrics and Gynecology.  The Association of Professors of Gynecology and Obstetrics and the Council on Resident Education in Obstetrics and Gynecology have proposed a fourth-year medical school curriculum for a student interested in pursuing a residency in obstetrics and gynecology.Faculty members and residents in North Carolina, Illinois, and Michigan were surveyed as to the ideal curriculum that they would recommend for fourth-year students. The committee members representing the Council on Resident Education in Obstetrics and Gynecology and the Association of Professors of Gynecology and Obstetrics then reviewed these surveys and proposed a final curriculum.A core curriculum of general medicine as an acting internship, an intensive care unit rotation, neonatology, and emergency medicine was recommended. Additional courses strongly considered were ambulatory obstetrics-gynecology, acting internship in obstetrics-gynecology, endocrinology, and general surgery.The committee recommends a curriculum that is broad and balanced in general medical education.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/12201903> Survey of the knowledge, attitude and practice of Nigerian surgery trainees to HIV-infected persons and AIDS patients.  The incidence of HIV infection and AIDS is rising in Nigeria. Surgeons are at risk of occupationally acquired infection as a result of intimate contact with the blood and body fluids of patients. This study set out to determine the knowledge, attitude and risk perception of Nigerian surgery residents to HIV infection and AIDS.A self-administered postal questionnaire was sent to all surgery trainees in Nigeria in 1997.Parenteral exposure to patients' blood was reported as occurring 92.5% times, and most respondents assessed their risk of becoming infected with HIV as being moderate at 1-5%. The majority of the respondents were not aware of the CDC guidelines on universal precautions against blood-borne pathogens. Most support a policy of routinely testing all surgical patients for HIV infection but 76.8% work in centers where there is no policy on parenteral exposure to patients' blood and body fluids. Most (85.6%) do not routinely use all the protective measures advocated for the reduction of transmission of blood borne pathogens during surgery, with the majority ascribing this to non-availability. Most want surgeons to be the primary formulators of policy on HIV and surgery while not completely excluding other stakeholders.The study demonstrates the level of knowledge, attitude and practice of Nigerian surgery trainees in 1997 and the need for policy guidelines to manage all aspects of the healthcare worker (HCW), patients, and HIV/AIDS interaction.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/12431919> Four models of medical education about elder mistreatment.  The authors describe four models of incorporating elder-mistreatment curricular content and collaboration with adult protective service (APS) community service agencies into geriatrics medical education. Geriatrics education programs at four academic health centers-the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey-Robert Wood Johnson Medical School; the University of California, Irvine College of Medicine; Hennepin County Medical Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota; and Baylor College of Medicine Geriatrics Program at the Harris County Hospital District, Houston, Texas-were surveyed and information collated. All programs incorporated direct interactions between learners and APS workers into their teaching programs. Learners were fellows, residents, and medical students. While two programs provided direct patient care, two others restricted learners to consultant roles, supporting the APS service providers with medical input. In addition to directly meeting curricular training needs of elder abuse and neglect, clinical cases provided valued learning experiences in applied clinical ethics, the role of physicians with community-based programs, the interaction between the medical and legal professions in cases of financial exploitation, and assessment of elder individuals' decision-making capacity. In two programs APS workers also contribute to the assessment of trainees' humanistic competencies. The authors conclude that APS community service agencies can successfully be incorporated into medical training programs to address a wide range of curricular goals.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/12739258> Videoconferencing for practice-based small-group continuing medical education: feasibility, acceptability, effectiveness, and cost.  Small-group, practice-based learning is an effective and well-accepted method of continuing medical education (CME). However, one limitation is that many physicians work in communities with fewer than the minimum number recommended for an effective learning group. Videoconferencing has the potential to remove this limitation. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the feasibility, acceptability, effectiveness, and cost of conducting practice-based, small-group CME learning by videoconference.Through a videoconferencing link, 10 learners in three communities were guided through four practice-based learning modules by a trained facilitator at a fourth site. Data were collected through evaluation questionnaires, direct observation by the research team, pre- and post-knowledge tests, a focus group, and an interview.A total of 31 learners participated in the four modules. Videoconferencing was generally well accepted by learners. The facilitator and research team observers noted that muting microphones, video quality, audio quality, and audio lag all somewhat hindered discussion. Overall, the facilitator found moderating by videoconference only slightly more difficult than a face-to-face session. There was evidence of knowledge gain, with post-test scores being 20% higher than pretest scores (p = .006). Learners reported nine practice changes from taking the modules. At commercial rates, telecommunications costs per videoconferenced module were approximately CAN$1,200.Videoconferencing has the potential to bring the benefits of small-group, practice-based learning to many physicians; however, strict attention to videoconferencing techniques is required. Cost is also an important consideration.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/15699782> Benefits of and barriers to the widespread use of spirometry.  To review the basis for spirometry, its benefits in diagnosing and managing both acute and chronic pulmonary disorders with emphasis on chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and to critically examine the barriers to its widespread use.A number of recent articles have established the scientific basis for spirometry in the early identification of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and in improving smoking cessation in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Economic and other considerations are reported.Spirometry is an important office diagnostic device that should be used by all primary care and most specialist physicians. Spirometry is to dyspnea as the electrocardiogram is to chest pain.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/27801537> Mutual benefit for foreign medical students and Chinese postgraduates: A mixed team-based learning method overcomes communication problems in hematology clerkship.  Hematology is difficult for students to learn. A beneficial education method for hematology clerkship training is required to help students develop clinical skills. Foreign medical students often encounter communication issues in China. To address this issue, Chinese post-graduates from our institute are willing to assist with educating foreign students. Therefore, we propose a mixed team-based learning method (MTBL) which might overcome communication problems in hematology clerkship. Twenty-two foreign medical Students attended a 2-week hematology clerkship in Fujian Medical University Union Hospital. Twenty-one foreign African medical students were assigned randomly into two groups. Fourteen foreign African medical students were assigned to MTBL group. Each MTBL team included two foreign African medical students and one Chinese post-graduate. Seven foreign African medical students were assigned to lecture-based learning method (LBL) group, which had a foreign medical classmate from Hong Kong or Chinese intern volunteers to serve as translators. The practice test scores of MTBL were significantly higher than LBL group (p < 0.05). The MTBL group had increased motivation to prepare before class, an engaged classroom atmosphere, and an improvement in their understanding of difficult topics. Interestingly, the Chinese post-graduates also benefited from this setting, as they found that this interaction improved their communication in the English language. The mixed team-based learning method overcomes communication problems in hematology clerkship. Foreign medical students and Chinese post-graduates alike can benefit from MTBL. © 2016 by The International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, 45(2):93-96, 2017.© 2016 The International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/17925112> Postgraduate medical training: getting patients on board.  To survey family planning clinic (FPC) patients who may be involved in the Diploma of the Faculty of Family Planning (DFFP) practical training; to obtain their views about the process of giving consent to their involvement; and to compare their views with current practice.Questionnaire surveys of 103 female FPC patients and 40 DFFP instructing doctors. Patients were recruited from the waiting room of a community FPC, and DFFP instructing doctors from the North West of England were recruited at an updating meeting.Patients felt strongly that they wanted to know what to expect before deciding whether to agree to be involved in the training. Several items of information were requested. The most important of these were whether the training doctor would be seeing the patient alone; the gender of the training doctor; and the training doctor's level of experience. Patients had not always been given this information.Clinical experience is an important part of postgraduate medical training and patients need to be able to give fully informed consent to their involvement. The information currently given to patients may be insufficient. A reluctance to see male training doctors may have implications as regards the breadth of experience gained by male training doctors; this needs further investigation. Further research including different patient populations could inform guidelines for patient involvement in training.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/1537015> Problem-based medical education: effect on library use.  Problem-based learning (PBL) is being adopted by U.S. medical schools. Information-seeking skills are central to the PBL curriculum, which emphasizes self-directed learning and the acquisition of problem-solving and lifelong learning skills. The purpose of this study is to begin exploring the relationship between the PBL curriculum and student information and library use. Medical students in PBL and conventional medical school curricula were compared on library and information-seeking competencies, behaviors, and perceptions. A survey was sent to second-year students in four medical schools, two schools with two curricular tracks (one PBL and one conventional), one PBL school, and one conventional school. The results showed certain significant differences (P less than 0.05) between PBL and conventional curriculum students, suggesting that PBL students were the more frequent library users, used information resources that supported the independent learning process, acquired information-seeking skills at an earlier stage in their medical education, and reported greater ease in using these skills.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/26975950> Role of Skill Laboratory Training in Medical Education - Students&rsquo; Perspective.  To evaluate the perceptions of medical students regarding their training utilizing facilities provided in the skill laboratory of a public sector medical college.Cross-sectional study.Army Medical College, Rawalpindi, from October to December 2014.Students of final year MBBS who had underwent skill laboratory training were recruited through convenience purposive sampling. Students not exposed to skill laboratory training were excluded. Data collection tool was a questionnaire having 23 questions with responses on Likert Scale as strongly disagree, disagree, agree and strongly agree coded as 1, 2, 3 and 4, respectively. Data was analysed on SPSS version 22.There were 78 (57%) male and 59 (43%) female students out of 137, with mean age of 22.59 &plusmn;0.74 years. The response rate was 68.5%. Cronbach&#039;s Alpha test was 0.84 showing high reliability. The mean of sum of all the 23 items was 63.85 &plusmn;8.71, whereas item means was 2.78 &plusmn;0.38, reflecting a high inclination of students towards skill laboratory training. Frequency of students responding in favour of skill laboratory training was significantly high (p &lt; 0.05).Medical students perceived skill laboratory training as a favoured learning strategy as compared to practising on real patients for acquisition of various aspects of clinical skills, knowledge and attitude.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/22184169> Musculoskeletal oncology training during residency.  To evaluate the efficacy of a musculoskeletal oncology training module during residency.24 orthopaedic residents with differing years of experience were recruited. 12 of them received musculoskeletal oncology training for 6 months. The remaining 12 were controls who did not attend the training and had no clinical experience in a musculoskeletal oncology unit but had at least 3 years of postgraduate surgical training. Upon completion, residents in both groups were assessed by a knowledge test and then an objective structured clinical examination (OSCE).Residents who attended the training module had better mean knowledge test scores (48 vs 25 out of 58, p<0.0001) and OSCE scores (32 vs 22 out of 42, p<0.004), compared to those who did not attend. No residents who attended the training module marked an inappropriate biopsy site that would have compromised definitive surgery, compared to 5 (42%) of the untrained residents who marked an inappropriate biopsy site that may have resulted in an unnecessary amputation. All residents who attended the training module agreed that such a module should be included in the orthopaedic residency programme.Residents who attended the training module were more aware of the biopsy principles and risks. A training module for musculoskeletal oncology should be included in the orthopaedic residency programme.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/7366494> A problem in medical education: is there an information overload?  Some problems common to many disciplines are briefly examined. One of the problems, that of an information overload, was recognized in medical education already twenty years ago; since then the situation has become much more acute. We have attempted to give a numerical value to the information content of a number of courses and these highlight the overload in the medical course.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/16510670> Local anesthetic and stylet styles: factors associated with resident lumbar puncture success.  To assess the effects of procedural techniques, local anesthetic use, and postgraduate training level on lumbar puncture (LP) success rates.In this prospective observational study, medical students and residents (trainees) reported techniques used for infant LPs in an urban teaching emergency department. Data on postgraduate year, patient position, draping, total and trainee numbers of attempts, local anesthetic use, and timing of stylet removal were collected. Logistic regression analysis was used to identify predictors of successful LP, with success defined as the trainee obtaining cerebrospinal fluid with <1000 red blood cells per mm3.We collected data on 428 (72%) of 594 infant LPs performed during the study period. Of 377 performed by trainees, 279 (74%) were successful. Local anesthesia was used for 280 (74%), and 225 (60%) were performed with early stylet removal. Controlling for the total number of attempts, LPs were 3 times more likely to be successful among infants >12 weeks of age than among younger infants (odds ratio [OR]: 3.1; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.2-8.5). Controlling for attempts and age, LPs performed with local anesthetic were twice as likely to be successful (OR: 2.2; 95% CI: 1.04-4.6). For infants < or =12 weeks of age, early stylet removal improved success rates (OR: 2.4; 95% CI: 1.1-5.2). Position, drape use, and year of training were not significant predictors of success.Patient age, use of local anesthetic, and trainee stylet techniques were associated with LP success rates. This offers an additional rationale for pain control. Predictors identified in this study should be considered in the training of physicians, to maximize their success with this important procedure.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/12414480> Assessment of communication and interpersonal skills competencies.  Excellent communication and interpersonal (C-IP) skills are a universal requirement for a well-rounded emergency physician. This requirement for C-IP skill excellence is a direct outgrowth of the expectations of our patients and a prerequisite to working in the increasingly complex emergency department environment. Directed education and assessment of C-IP skills are critical components of all emergency medicine (EM) training programs and now are a requirement of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) Outcome Project. In keeping with its mission to improve the quality of EM education and in response to the ACGME Outcome Project, the Council of Emergency Medicine Residency Directors (CORD-EM) hosted a consensus conference focusing on the application of the six core competencies to EM. The objective of this article is to report the results of this consensus conference as it relates to the C-IP competency. There were four primary goals: 1) define the C-IP skills competency for EM, 2) define the assessment methods currently used in other specialties, 3) identify the methods suggested by the ACGME for use in C-IP skills, and 4) analyze the applicability of these assessment techniques to EM. Ten specific communication competencies are defined for EM. Assessment techniques for evaluation of these C-IP competencies and a timeline for implementation are also defined. Standardized patients and direct observation were identified as the criterion standard assessment methods of C-IP skills; however, other methods for assessment are also discussed.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/18664014> [Medical history and ethics. In memoriam Rolf Winau (1937-2006)].  The paper contributes to the discussion on the self-image of the institutionalized medical history at the medical schools in Germany. Influenced by the curriculum of the new licence to practice medicine (Approbationsordnung für Arzte) containing a so-called cross-section (Querschnittsbereich) history, theory, ethics of medicine, the scientific community is to a certain extent rather prone to assume clear cut different disciplines--especially medical history versus medical ethics--than to consider overlapping and almost inseparable fields of work with corresponding implications. The author supports the latter approach and advocates the appreciation of the subjective factor in regard to teaching granting an ample scope for the individual teacher.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/16834640> Clinical outcomes and learning curve of a laparoscopic adrenalectomy in 103 consecutive cases at a single institute.  We examined the clinical outcomes and the learning curve for a laparoscopic adrenalectomy (LA) in 103 consecutive cases performed by three surgeons at our institute, according to the type of adrenal disorder.One hundred and three patients with adrenal tumors, including 38 cases of primary aldosteronism, 33 cases of Cushing syndrome (including preclinical Cushing syndrome), 15 cases of pheochromocytoma, and nine cases of non-functioning adenoma were evaluated, while focusing on the approaches, intraoperative and postoperative data, and the learning curve of LA, according the type of adrenal disorder.There was no significant difference in the operation time, estimated blood loss, incidence of conversion to open surgery and blood transfusion, or postoperative recovery among the patients treated by LA for aldosteronoma, Cushing adenoma, pheochromocytoma, and non-functioning adenoma. In the cases of aldosteronoma and Cushing adenoma, the learning curve for the operation time and blood loss in each operator tended to decrease as the number of operations increased. On the other hand, in the cases treated by LA for pheochromocytoma, no trends in either the operation time or blood loss were observed. However, there has been neither any conversion to open surgery nor blood transfusion in cases treated by LA since 1998 (our 42nd case), even after the changes in the operators.Our results clearly indicate that LA is becoming safer than before, probably due to improvements in the technique, education, and training of surgeons, in addition to the increased number of cases now treated by LA.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/11564205> Development of the programme Mental Disorders in Primary Care as Internet-based distance education in South Africa.  This innovative educational programme was developed in the South African context for general practitioners (GPs).This short report describes the process of designing an Internet-based distance education programme Mental Disorders in Primary Care.The article discusses relevant educational principles and then describes four stages in the instructional design process: design, development, evaluation and revision.The design and development of an Internet-based distance education programme for GPs in South Africa was a potent learning experience for me as an academic family physician with no prior experience in this area. I hope that this short report will assist other people and contribute to an ongoing dialogue on this topic.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/7759178> T-groups (training groups) in psychiatric residency programs: facts and possible implications.  The authors studied T-groups offered in psychiatric residency programs in the United States in 1992. A 32-item questionnaire was sent to the residency training directors of 297 psychiatric programs and 34% responded. Results of the questionnaire are presented and their possible implications are discussed. These include: (1) programs that offer T-group value it as indicated by the time allotted to it, the quality of the T-group leaders, and the objectives within the residency program it seeks to accomplish; (2) 45% of respondents not offering T-groups cite negative attitudes toward T-groups (theirs or their residents) as a reason for this decision; (3) T-group, often equated with psychodynamic process, may have suffered the same recent deemphasis as has the teaching of psychodynamic psychotherapy; (4) and T-group, by its very nature, has educational as well as therapeutic features, a combination that creates tensions with regard to the T-group contract, especially the items having to do with confidentiality and attendance. The authors suggest group therapy will be a primary treatment modality in the coming years of economic constraint. They also recommend making a case to residency training directors for T-group and its inclusion in psychiatric curricula.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/19288566> Electronic continuing education in the health professions: an update on evidence from RCTs.  Demonstrating the effectiveness of the rapidly expanding field of electronic continuing education (e-CE) has important implications for CE in the health professions. This study provides an update on evidence from randomized controlled trials (RCTs) assessing the effectiveness of e-CE in the health professions.A literature search of RCTs was performed in MEDLINE, EMBASE, and CINAHL from 2004 to 2007. Papers were reviewed separately by 2 of the authors and results were categorized and reviewed according to study comparisons.Fifteen studies met our inclusion criteria. Six compared e-CE to no intervention or placebo. Of these 6 studies, 4 showed a statistically significant advantage of the e-CE intervention and 2 showed no significant effect. Two studies compared e-CE to a lecture. Of these, 1 showed an advantage of e-CE and 1 showed no difference. Two studies compared e-CE to a small-group interactive intervention. In both studies, the e-CE group outperformed the control. Two studies compared a multicomponent e-CE intervention to one based on flat text, and both showed the multicomponent intervention to be more effective. Two of the 15 studies demonstrated a statistically significant effect on practice patterns. Positive effects of e-CE on knowledge were shown to persist for up to 12 months and effects on practice up to 5 months.Overall, these studies suggest that multicomponent e-CE interventions can be effective in changing health professionals' practice patterns, and improve their knowledge. E-CE interventions based purely on flat text appear to be of limited effectiveness in changing either knowledge or practice. These results support the use of multicomponent e-CE as a method of CE delivery.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/9580719> The preparedness of students to discuss end-of-life issues with patients.  To explore how well medical schools prepare students to address end-of-life issues with their patients.In 1997, the authors surveyed 226 fourth-year students at Georgetown University School of Medicine and Mayo Medical School, assessing relevant knowledge, experiences, and attitudes, and the students' sense of preparedness to address end-of-life issues.Seventy-two percent (162) of the eligible students responded. Almost all (99%) recognized the importance of advance directives and anticipated discussing end-of-life issues with patients in their practices (84%). However, only 41% thought their education regarding end-of-life issues had been adequate, only 27% had ever discussed end-of-life issues with a patient themselves, and only 35% thought they had had adequate exposure and education regarding advance directives. Eighty percent favored more education about end-of-life issues. Educational exposure to end-of-life issues and to role models, ability to correctly define an advance directive, number of end-of-life discussions witnessed, and age all were associated the students' sense of preparedness to discuss advance directives with patients.Most of the students felt unprepared to discuss end-of-life issues with their patients, but wanted to learn more. The factors associated with a sense of preparedness suggest several possible, easily made, educational interventions, but further research is required to understand the scope of the problem and to implement curricular modifications.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/10094270> Comparison of internal medicine, pediatric, and medicine/pediatrics applicants and factors influencing career choices.  A reemergence of medical students choosing primary care is occurring, with medicine/pediatrics as an increasingly popular option. We compared applicants to pediatrics, medicine, and medicine/pediatrics and the factors that influence career choice.We designed a survey to gather objective data and information shown to influence career choices. Applicants interviewing in our three primary care programs completed the survey.Pediatric applicants were more likely to be women and to choose their career in the 2nd year of medical school. Medicine/Pediatrics applicants had the highest interest in practicing primary care and in pursuing an academic career. However, they had the smallest number of role models. The average education debt was the same.Differences in applicants applying to primary care programs may be used to target particular applicants and to counsel medical students on career choice.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/10136177> Physicians and economics: a commentary.  This article discusses the physician in the United States in relationship to economics. Because economics forms the basis of most of the debate concerning health care in this country, it is important to look at the physician's background, position, and future as they relate to this important area. Eight economic encounters met by the physician are considered: the physician's relationships with knowledge, patients, peers, hospitals, medical technology, malpractice, managed care, and the future. The purpose is to encourage discussion and introspection and to suggest possible future avenues of education and training to address more completely the economic necessities that now are so closely entwined with the profession.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/27380781> Postgraduate training for family medicine in a rural district hospital in South Africa: Appropriateness and sufficiency of theatre procedures as a sentinel indicator.  Since 2007, the postgraduate training of family physicians for South African district hospitals has been formalised. This training differs from European and North American programmes as up to 30% of the skills needed rely on district hospital surgical, obstetrics and anaesthetics procedures, particularly in rural areas, as outlined in the national unit standards. The aim of this study was to evaluate the appropriateness and sufficiency of learning opportunities for these skills in a rural district hospital.A descriptive, cross-sectional study was undertaken of the number and type of procedures performed in theatre for a 1-year period and compared with the required procedural skills stipulated in the national unit standards. Descriptive statistical analyses were used to analyse categorical data.Three thousand seven hundred and forty-one procedures were performed during the study period. Anaesthesia was the most common procedure, followed by Caesarean section. There were adequate opportunities for teaching most core skills.Sufficient and appropriate learning opportunities exist for postgraduate family medicine training in all the core skills performed in a theatre according to the national unit standards.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/27638740> Predictive validity of the UKCAT for medical school undergraduate performance: a national prospective cohort study.  The UK Clinical Aptitude Test (UKCAT) has been shown to have a modest but statistically significant ability to predict aspects of academic performance throughout medical school. Previously, this ability has been shown to be incremental to conventional measures of educational performance for the first year of medical school. This study evaluates whether this predictive ability extends throughout the whole of undergraduate medical study and explores the potential impact of using the test as a selection screening tool.This was an observational prospective study, linking UKCAT scores, prior educational attainment and sociodemographic variables with subsequent academic outcomes during the 5 years of UK medical undergraduate training. The participants were 6812 entrants to UK medical schools in 2007-8 using the UKCAT. The main outcome was academic performance at each year of medical school. A receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis was also conducted, treating the UKCAT as a screening test for a negative academic outcome (failing at least 1 year at first attempt).All four of the UKCAT scale scores significantly predicted performance in theory- and skills-based exams. After adjustment for prior educational achievement, the UKCAT scale scores remained significantly predictive for most years. Findings from the ROC analysis suggested that, if used as a sole screening test, with the mean applicant UKCAT score as the cut-off, the test could be used to reject candidates at high risk of failing at least 1 year at first attempt. However, the 'number needed to reject' value would be high (at 1.18), with roughly one candidate who would have been likely to pass all years at first sitting being rejected for every higher risk candidate potentially declined entry on this basis.The UKCAT scores demonstrate a statistically significant but modest degree of incremental predictive validity throughout undergraduate training. Whilst the UKCAT could be considered a fairly crude screening tool for future academic performance, it may offer added value when used in conjunction with other selection measures. Future work should focus on the optimum role of such tests within the selection process and the prediction of post-graduate performance.
<doc id=MedicalEducation/26129964> Teaching of the Society for Fetal Urology grading system for pediatric hydronephrosis is improved by e-Learning using Computer Enhanced Visual Learning (CEVL): A multi-institutional trial.  It is unclear how clinicians learn to grade pediatric hydronephrosis (HN) and how effective their training has been. We sought to: 1. Assess how clinicians learn to grade HN and their confidence in their training and abilities and 2. To assess Computer Enhanced Visual Learning (CEVL) e-Learning to learn the Society for Fetal Urology (SFU) grading system for pediatric HN.A multi-institutional online survey was distributed to pediatric urologists, nephrologists, and radiologists. Respondents used a 6-point Likert scale (0 = not confident to 5 = very confident) to assess their confidence in knowledge of the criteria, indications, and ability to grade HN, and how they learned to grade. Participants assigned SFU grades to 15 neonatal ultrasounds (US). A CEVL module on the SFU grading system was accessed and a post-CEVL survey completed. Changes in confidence and accuracy of grading were compared before and after CEVL e-Learning.The most common method of learning was casually during training (44.5%). Significant increases in confidence in knowledge of criteria, indications, and ability to grade, as well as the accuracy of grading were seen following CEVL e-Learning (Figure A and B).Although the SFU grading system is considered the predominant grading system for HN, its application in clinical practice has been inconsistent. While this may be due to the grading system itself, it is possible that deficient training and confidence are the root causes. Our data supports this by demonstrating that most clinicians receive only casual training and accordingly, report low confidence in their knowledge and ability to grade HN. Therefore, we conclude that there exists a strong need to improve the teaching of the SFU grading system. e-Learning has been shown to be effective in teaching difficult topics and skills. We demonstrate that e-Learning with CEVL is effective in increasing both the confidence and accuracy of SFU grading of pediatric HN. Limitations of our study include a small sample size, low response rate, and discrepant participation. Furthermore, we did not assess the extent to which the CEVL module was used or include a control group learning through traditional means. Therefore, we were unable to evaluate the efficiency of learning or be certain that the improvements seen were derived exclusively from CEVL.Current training in SFU grading of HN is mostly unstructured and inaccurate grading is common. Learners who use CEVL show improvements in their confidence and ability to SFU grade HN.Copyright © 2015 Journal of Pediatric Urology Company. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/12803976> Age-dependent differences in glutathione peroxidase activity after traumatic brain injury.  Children younger than 4 years old have worse outcome after traumatic brain injury (TBI) compared to older children and adults. This increased susceptibility may in part be due to differences in the response to oxidative stress. We hypothesized that the immature brain does not have an adequate compensatory response to injury from oxidative stress. To begin to address this hypothesis, we first compared the general dimensions and water content in postnatal day 21 (P21) and adult murine brain in the naive state as well as after injury (edema). We examined glutathione peroxidase (GPx ) activity in cortical and subcortical regions in P21 and adult murine brain following a controlled cortical impact. Brain dimensions including areas of the mantle and hemispheres were similar in each of these groups. The thickness of the cortical mantle was significantly greater in the immature brain as compared to the mature brain (p = 0.01, respectively). Brain edema was assessed through changes in water content, and the response to oxidative challenge was identified by changes in GPx activity. The P21 brain was similar in vulnerability to posttraumatic brain edema when compared to adult. GPx activity in the adult brain was increased within 24 h post-injury in the cortex, thalamus and hippocampus (ANOVA, p < 0.05), whereas there was no compensatory increase in GPx activity in P21 brain, although baseline levels had reached adult levels developmentally. These findings support our hypothesis and illuminate the important role of oxidative stress after TBI in the immature brain that warrants further study.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/8772092> [Pulmonary complications in severe combined craniocerebral trauma (their pathogenesis, clinical picture, diagnosis and treatment)].  Within 1979-1989 the authors treated 26 wounded soldiers and officers with brain injury inflicted by mine explosion. 5 patients were in severe condition, 18 in extremely grave and 3 in critical condition. The patients had concomitant blast injuries and contusions. Pulmonary complications observed in such patients compused to DIC and respiratory distress syndromes running in the presence of marked metabolic disorders, hypoxia and intoxication. It is thought important that conservative therapy of respiratory disorders in patients with brain traumas were not constricted with correction of bronchial obstruction. The additional intensive treatment of the above syndromes is needed including extracorporeal detoxication (plasmapheresis) and hyperbaric oxygenation.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/8002772> Late onset of syringomyelia after traumatic brain injury: association with Chiari 1 malformation.  Syringomyelia should be suspected when progressive weakness or sensory loss develops. It most commonly occurs as a congenital malformation but has also been associated with spinal cord injury and the Chiari malformation. Symptomatic Chiari malformation after head injury is rare and usually presents with signs of acutely increased intracranial pressure. This article describes syringomyelia as a late onset complication of head injury in the presence of an underlying Chiari malformation. A possible causal relationship between head injury, the brain malformation, and an extensive syrinx is postulated.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/21825216> Neurological injury in adults treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.  Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) may be urgently used as a last resort form of life support when all other treatment options for potentially reversible cardiopulmonary injury have failed.To examine the range and frequency of neurological injury in ECMO-treated adults.Retrospective clinicopathological cohort study.Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.A prospectively collected registry of all patients 15 years or older treated with ECMO for 12 or more hours from January 2002 to April 2010.Patients were analyzed for potential risk factors for neurological events and death using logistic regression and Cox proportional hazards models.Neurological diagnosis and/or death.A total of 87 adults were treated (35 female [40%]; median age, 54 years [interquartile range, 31]; mean duration of ECMO, 91 hours [interquartile range, 100]; overall survival >7 days after ECMO, 52%). Neurological events occurred in 42 patients who received ECMO (50%; 95% confidence interval [CI], 39%-61%). Diagnoses included subarachnoid hemorrhage, ischemic watershed infarctions, hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy, unexplained coma, and brain death. Death in patients who received ECMO who did not require antecedent cardiopulmonary resuscitation was associated with increased age (odds ratio, 1.24 per decade; 95% CI, 1.03-1.50; P = .02) and lower minimum arterial oxygen pressure (odds ratio, 0.79; 95% CI, 0.68-0.92; P = .03). Although stroke was rarely diagnosed clinically, 9 of 10 brains studied at autopsy demonstrated hypoxic-ischemic and hemorrhagic lesions of vascular origin.Severe neurological sequelae occur frequently in adult ECMO-treated patients with otherwise reversible cardiopulmonary injury (conservative estimate, 50%) and include a range of potentially fatal neurological diagnoses that may be due to the precipitating event and/or ECMO treatment.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/16276448> [Recent advances in regional cerebral monitoring in the neurocritical patient: brain tissue oxygen pressure monitoring, cerebral microdialysis and near-infrared spectroscopy].  The long term outcome of head-injured patients depends not only on the primary brain lesions but also to a large extent on the secondary lesions. The diagnosis of many secondary lesions, and specially that of brain ischemia, is based on simultaneous monitoring of several intracranial and systemic variables. Continuous intracranial pressure (ICP) monitoring is currently considered indispensable in the management of all patients with a severe head injury and intracranial lesions. However, the information provided by this technique is insufficient to diagnose some of the complex physiopathological processes that characterize traumatic brain lesions. Consequently, the use of methods to estimate cerebral blood flow such as transcranial Doppler and jugular oximetry to complement ICP monitoring is becoming increasingly widespread. Nevertheless, determining the effect of tissue lesions and therapeutic measures on cerebral metabolism currently requires direct access to the brain parenchyma at the bedside. In this review we focus on three methods of regional cerebral monitoring: oxygen tissue pressure (PtiO(2)) monitoring, microdialysis and near-infrared spectroscopy. The bases of each method and reference values for the variables analyzed will be discussed. We also make a series of recommendations on how results should be interpreted in light of current knowledge.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/26671985> Characterization of Early Pathological Tau Conformations and Phosphorylation in Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy.  Chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) is a neurodegenerative tauopathy that develops after repetitive head injury. Several lines of evidence in other tauopathies suggest that tau oligomer formation induces neurotoxicity and that tau oligomer-mediated neurotoxicity involves induction of axonal dysfunction through exposure of an N-terminal motif in tau, the phosphatase-activating domain (PAD). Additionally, phosphorylation at serine 422 in tau occurs early and correlates with cognitive decline in patients with Alzheimer disease (AD). We performed immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence on fixed brain sections and biochemical analysis of fresh brain extracts to characterize the presence of PAD-exposed tau (TNT1 antibody), tau oligomers (TOC1 antibody), tau phosphorylated at S422 (pS422 antibody), and tau truncated at D421 (TauC3 antibody) in the brains of 9-11 cases with CTE and cases of nondemented aged controls and AD (Braak VI) (n = 6, each). All 3 early tau markers (ie, TNT1, TOC1, and pS422) were present in CTE and displayed extensive colocalization in perivascular tau lesions that are considered diagnostic for CTE. Notably, the TauC3 epitope, which is abundant in AD, was relatively sparse in CTE. Together, these results provide the first description of PAD exposure, TOC1 reactive oligomers, phosphorylation of S422, and TauC3 truncation in the tau pathology of CTE.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/9856296> A retrospective analysis of expressed emotion (EE) and affective distress in a sample of relatives caring for traumatically brain-injured (TBI) family members.  To examine levels of expressed emotion (EE) and affective distress in relatives caring for severely brain-injured family members.The study took the form of a retrospective, observational cross-sectional analysis.Data on 28 relatives were reviewed. Each participant completed one affective health-related questionnaire (Leeds Scales for the Self-Assessment of Anxiety and Depression; Snaith, Bridge & Hamilton, 1976) and their EE was rated using the Camberwell Family Interview (CFI; Brown, Birley & Wing, 1972; Vaughn & Leff, 1976, modified for head-injury relatives. Participants were rated as either high or low EE. Comparative statistical analysis examined differences in affective distress between the two groups.Of the 28 participants, 12 were rated high EE and 16 were rated low EE. Levels of anxiety were significantly higher among the high EE group, but levels of depression were not significantly different between the high and low EE groups. A significant correlation was found between EE and carer status, i.e. sole carers or family carers, with sole carers displaying significantly higher levels of EE than family carers. Multiple regression also revealed that carer status was most predictive of EE.Discussion considers EE as a coping strategy. Further research into the predictive capability of EE as an indicator of affective distress in head-injury families is suggested.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/25188315> National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I athletic trainers' concussion-management practice patterns.  A cornerstone of the recent consensus statements on concussion is a multifaceted concussion-assessment program at baseline and postinjury and when tracking recovery. Earlier studies of athletic trainers' (ATs') practice patterns found limited use of multifaceted protocols; however, these authors typically grouped diverse athletic training settings together.To (1) describe the concussion-management practice patterns of National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I ATs, (2) compare these practice patterns to earlier studies, and (3) objectively characterize the clinical examination.Cross-sectional study.Online survey.A total of 610 ATs from NCAA Division I institutions, for a response rate of 34.4%.The survey had 3 subsections: demographic questions related to the participant's experiences, concussion-assessment practice patterns, and concussion-recovery and return-to-participation practice patterns. Specific practice-pattern questions addressed balance, cognitive and mental status, neuropsychological testing, and self-reported symptoms. Finally, specific components of the clinical examination were examined.We identified high rates of multifaceted assessments (i.e., assessments using at least 3 techniques) during testing at baseline (71.2%), acute concussion assessment (79.2%), and return to participation (66.9%). The specific techniques used are provided along with their adherence with evidence-based practice findings. Respondents endorsed a diverse array of clinical examination techniques that often overlapped objective concussion-assessment protocols or were likely used to rule out associated potential conditions. Respondents were cognizant of the Third International Consensus Statement, the National Athletic Trainers' Association position statement, and the revised NCAA Sports Medicine Handbook recommendations.Athletic trainers in NCAA Division I demonstrated widespread use of multifaceted concussion-assessment techniques and appeared compliant with recent consensus statements and the NCAA Sports Medicine Handbook.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/20857232> Traumatic brain injury elicits similar alterations in α7 nicotinic receptor density in two different experimental models.  Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a major cause of death and disability worldwide, especially in children and young adults. Previous studies have shown alterations in the central cholinergic neurotransmission after TBI. We therefore determined α7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) densities in newborn piglets and adult rats after experimental TBI. Thirteen newborn piglets (post-TBI survival time: 6 h) underwent fluid percussion (FP) injury (n = 7) or sham operation (n = 6). Furthermore, adult rats randomized into three groups of post-TBI survival times (2, 24, 72 h) received controlled cortical impact injury (CCI, n = 8) or sham operation (n = 8). Brains were frozen, sagittally cut and incubated with the α7-specific radioligand [(125)I]α-bungarotoxin for autoradiography. In injured newborn piglets, decreased α7 receptor densities were observed in the hippocampus (-38%), the hippocampus CA1 (-40%), thalamus (-30%) and colliculus superior (-30%). In adult rats, CCI decreased the receptor densities (between -16 and -47%) in almost any brain region within 2 and 24 h. In conclusion, widespread and significantly lowered α7 nAChR densities were demonstrated in both TBI models. Our results suggest that a nearly similar TBI-induced decrease in the α7 density in the brain of immature and adult animals is found, even with the differences in species, age and experimental procedures. The alterations make the α7 nAChR a suitable target for drug development and neuroimaging after TBI.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/15863748> Misdiagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder following severe traumatic brain injury.  The incidence of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) after traumatic brain injury is unclear. One issue involves the validity of diagnosis using self-report questionnaires.To compare PTSD'caseness' arising from questionnaire self-report and structured interview.Participants (n=34) with traumatic brain injury were recruited. Screening measures and self-report questionnaires were administered, followed by the structured interview.Using questionnaires, 59% fulfilled criteria for PTSD on the Post-traumatic Diagnostic Scale and 44% on the Impact of Events Scale, whereas using structured interview (Clinician-Administered PTSD Scale) only 3% were 'cases'. This discrepancy may arise from confusions between effects of PTSD and traumatic brain injury.After traumatic brain injury, PTSD self-report measures might be used for screening but not diagnosis.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/9050199> Continuous monitoring of brain tissue PO2: a new tool to minimize the risk of ischemia caused by hyperventilation therapy.  Secondary ischemic events worsen the outcome of patients with severe head injury. Such a secondary ischemic event may be caused by a forced hyperventilation. A consequence of the induced vasoconstriction is the risk of ischemia with an adverse effect on outcome. As a reliable and on-line technique, brain tissue pO2 (p(ti)O2) is used for monitoring regional microcirculation, to detect critical hypoperfusion. On 22 patients with a severe head injury 70 hyperventilation tests were performed from day 0-9 after trauma, calculating TCD-CO2-reactivity (% change of mean flow velocity per mm Hg paCO2 change). Additionally brain p(ti)O2-CO2-reactivity (% change of brain p(ti)O2 per mm Hg paCO2 change) was calculated and introduced. Group A +2 (p(ti)O2 < or = 15 mm Hg, TCD-CO2-reactivity > or = 2.5%, p(ti)O2-CO2-reactivity > 0%) and group B +2 (p(ti)O2 > 15 mm Hg, TCD-CO2-reactivity > or = 2.5%. p(ti)O2-CO2-reactivity > 0%) was formed. P(ti)O2 values in group A+2 decreased to an ischemic level or ischemia aggravated during hyperventilation. In group B+2 no ischemic events occurred. TCD-CO2-reactivity, p(ti)O2-CO2-reactivity and decrease of paCO2 were not significantly different in both groups. 6 out of 22 patients showed, from day 0-9, at least once a risk of (aggravating) ischemia by hyperventilation therapy.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/11450048> Isoflurane doubles plasma glutamate and increases posttraumatic brain edema.  Increased plasma and cerebral glutamate levels may contribute to posttraumatic edema formation. Since volatile anesthetics elevate plasma amino acid concentrations, the influence of isoflurane on arterial plasma glutamate levels and brain edema formation was investigated in brain-injured rats. Rats were anesthetized with chloral hydrate (380 mg/kg i.p.) or isoflurane (1.2-2.0 vol%) for four hours following controlled cortical impact injury. Isoflurane significantly increased arterial glutamate levels compared to chloral hydrate (124 +/- 12 vs. 60 +/- 5 microM; p < 0.005). At eight hours after trauma, water content was significantly increased in the traumatized hemisphere compared to the non-traumatized side (p < 0.005). In addition, four hours of isoflurane anesthesia caused a significant increase in brain water content of both hemispheres compared to chloral hydrate (80.1 +/- 0.1 vs. 79.6 +/- 0.1%; p < 0.005). Prolonged isoflurane anesthesia is associated with a significant increase in arterial plasma glutamate levels and brain water content. This increase in brain water content must be considered when performing prolonged isoflurane anesthesia.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/21812586> Clinical usefulness of diffusion tensor imaging in patients with transtentorial herniation following traumatic brain injury.  This study investigated the clinical usefulness of diffusion tensor tractography (DTT) for elucidation of the corticospinal tract (CST) state in patients with transtentorial herniation (TH) following traumatic brain injury (TBI).Eleven consecutive patients with TH were recruited among 175 patients with TBI. Patients who showed TH were classified into two groups according to DTT findings: Group 1: the integrity of CST was preserved, Group 2: the integrity of CST was disrupted at the cerebral peduncle (CP) or pons.Five patients belonged to Group 1 of TH, six patients to Group 2 of TH. On DTT of Group 1, fractional anisotropy values of the CP and pons along the CST in the affected hemisphere were lower than those of the unaffected hemisphere; however, the difference was not significant (p > 0.05). In Group 2, fractional anisotropy values of the CP and pons in the affected hemisphere were significantly lower than those of the unaffected hemisphere (p < 0.05).It was found that DTT is useful in evaluation of the presence and the severity of CST injury in patients with TH following TBI.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/21561314> The anti-inflammatory drug carprofen improves long-term outcome and induces gliogenesis after traumatic brain injury.  Traumatic brain injury (TBI) initiates acute and chronic inflammatory processes involving cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), which may have detrimental effects on outcome and especially on brain regeneration. Therefore we aimed to study whether carprofen, a COX-2 inhibitor, would improve outcome and increase neurogenesis after TBI. TBI was induced in Sabra mice that were then treated with vehicle or carprofen for 7 days. Functional outcome was evaluated with the Neurological Severity Score (NSS).Cytokine levels were assessed 4 h post-TBI and water content was measured 24 h post TBI. Mice were given BrdU to label newborn cells for 10 days. The animals were killed 90 days post-TBI and the lesion size as well as newborn cell fate were assessed. Carprofen significantly reduced lesion size (p=0.002), decreased water content in the lesioned cortex (p=0.03), reduced the number of microglia in the lesioned cortex (p<0.0001), and lowered the levels of proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, p=0.03; IL-6, p=0.02). Carprofen led to significantly larger improvements in functional outcome (p≤0.008) which were durable over 90 days. Carprofen also induced a threefold increase in the proliferation of new cells in the peri-lesion area (p≤0.002), but newborn cells differentiated mainly into glia in both groups. Carprofen is neuroprotective and induces cell proliferation and gliogenesis after TBI. Treatment with carprofen is consistently associated with better functional outcome. Our results imply that anti-inflammatory drugs may represent novel therapeutic options for TBI.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/26235081> Advanced Shotgun Lipidomics for Characterization of Altered Lipid Patterns in Neurodegenerative Diseases and Brain Injury.  Multi-dimensional mass spectrometry-based shotgun lipidomics (MDMS-SL) is a powerful technology platform among current lipidomics practices due to its high efficiency, sensitivity, and reproducibility, as well as its broad coverage. This platform has been widely used to determine the altered lipid profiles induced by diseases, injury, genetic manipulations, drug treatments, and aging, among others. Herein, we summarize the principles underlying this platform and present a protocol for analysis of many of the lipid classes and subclasses covered by MDMS-SL directly from lipid extracts of brain samples. We believe that this protocol can aid researchers in the field to determine altered lipid patterns in neurodegenerative diseases and brain injury. 
<doc id=BrainInjuries/20104406> Insomnia in the context of traumatic brain injury.  Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is one of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in the United States. One of the most common comorbidities of TBI is the disruption of normal sleep. While often viewed as a nuisance symptom, sleep disruption can delay TBI recovery and negatively affect many of the psychological (e.g., anxiety, depression) and neuromuscular (e.g., pain) sequelae of TBI, decreasing quality of life. Treatment of sleep disruption in the context of TBI is complicated by issues of an altered neuronal milieu, polypharmacy, and the complex relationship between the various comorbidities often found in patients with TBI. Given the growing number of veterans returning from combat with TBI and the elevated risk of comorbid disrupted sleep, both caused by and independent of TBI, a comprehensive review of sleep disruption and its treatment is of great relevance to the Department of Veterans Affairs.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/20517764> Value of early unilateral decompressive craniectomy in patients with severe traumatic brain injury.  The aim of our study was to evaluate the results and effectiveness of early decompressive craniectomy in the treatment of severe traumatic brain injury.We conducted a prospective study to investigate the clinical and radiological results of early unilateral decompressive craniectomy in 33 patients with severe traumatic brain injury. The mean area of the craniectomy, potential expansion volume of the decompressed brain, and distance between the lower border of the craniectomy and the temporal cranial base were calculated from computed tomography scans. Clinical results were analyzed with modified Rankin Scale (mRS).Time to surgery after trauma was 3.1+/-1.9 hours. There was a direct proportionality correlation between the area of the craniectomy and the calculated volume (p<0.0001). There was also a significant correlation between the state of the mesencephalic cisterns after craniectomy and the distance of the craniectomy to the base of the cranium (p<0.01). Assessment of overall one-year clinical outcome demonstrated favorable outcome (mRS 0-3) in 48.5% of patients.The high overall morbidity and mortality rates demonstrated in our group despite the performance of early decompressive procedures reflect the severity of the underlying injuries.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/22519988> sAPPα rescues deficits in amyloid precursor protein knockout mice following focal traumatic brain injury.  The amyloid precursor protein (APP) is thought to be neuroprotective following traumatic brain injury (TBI), although definitive evidence at moderate to severe levels of injury is lacking. In the current study, we investigated histological and functional outcomes in APP-/- mice compared with APP+/+ mice following a moderate focal injury, and whether administration of sAPPα restored the outcomes in knockout animals back to the wildtype state. Following moderate controlled cortical impact injury, APP-/- mice demonstrated greater impairment in motor and cognitive outcome as determined by the ledged beam and Barnes Maze tests respectively (p < 0.05). This corresponded with the degree of neuronal damage, with APP-/- mice having significantly greater lesion volume (25.0 ± 1.6 vs. 20.3 ± 1.6%, p < 0.01) and hippocampal damage, with less remaining CA neurons (839 ± 245 vs. 1353 ± 142 and 1401 ± 263). This was also associated with an impaired neuroreparative response, with decreased GAP-43 immunoreactivity within the cortex around the lesion edge compared with APP+/+ mice. The deficits observed in the APP-/- mice related to a lack of sAPPα, as treatment with exogenously added sAPPα post-injury improved APP-/- mice histological and functional outcome to the point that they were no longer significantly different to APP+/+ mice (p < 0.05). This study shows that endogenous APP is potentially protective at moderate levels of TBI, and that this neuroprotective activity is related to the presence of sAPPα. Importantly, it indicates that the mechanism of action of exogenously added sAPPα is independent of the presence of endogenous APP.© 2012 The Authors. Journal of Neurochemistry © 2012 International Society for Neurochemistry.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/10901686> Pre-injury substance abuse among persons with brain injury and persons with spinal cord injury.  Alcohol and drug use at the time of injury have been strongly implicated as causal factors of spinal cord injury (SCI) and traumatic brain injury (TBI). Researchers have only begun their efforts to investigate the pre-injury incidence of substance abuse in an effort to identify persons at risk for traumatic injury. No studies have compared brain and spinal cord injury populations. This investigation was based in an urban, level one trauma center federally designated as a model system of comprehensive rehabilitative services for persons with TBI and persons with SCI. Pre-injury patterns of alcohol and illicit drug use were compared among patients with SCI and patients with TBI, matched for age, gender, race, and mechanism of injury (n= 52). In accordance with previous research, participants were primarily young, unmarried, males with at least a high school education. Eighty-one percent of patients with TBI and 96% of patients with SCI reported pre-injury alcohol use. The rate of pre-injury heavy drinking for both groups was alarmingly high. Fifty-seven percent of persons with SCI and 42% of persons with TBI were heavy drinkers. Implications for risk identification, treatment, and future research are discussed.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/25943740> Decline in arylsulfatase B and Increase in chondroitin 4-sulfotransferase combine to increase chondroitin 4-sulfate in traumatic brain injury.  In an established rat model of penetrating ballistic-like brain injury (PBBI), arylsulfatase B (ARSB; N-acetylgalactosamine 4-sulfatase) activity was significantly reduced at the ipsilateral site of injury, but unaffected at the contralateral site or in sham controls. In addition, the ARSB substrate chondroitin 4-sulfate (C4S) and total sulfated glycosaminoglycans increased. The mRNA expression of chondroitin 4-sulfotransferase 1 (C4ST1; CHST11) and the sulfotransferase activity rose at the ipsilateral site of injury (PBBI-I), indicating contributions from both increased production and reduced degradation to the accumulation of C4S. In cultured, fetal rat astrocytes, following scratch injury, the ARSB activity declined and the nuclear hypoxia inducible factor-1α increased significantly. In contrast, sulfotransferase activity and chondroitin 4-sulfotransferase expression increased following astrocyte exposure to TGF-β1, but not following scratch. These different pathways by which C4S increased in the cell preparations were both evident in the response to injury in the PBBI-I model. Hence, findings support effects of injury because of mechanical disruption inhibiting ARSB and to chemical mediation by TGF-β1 increasing CHST11 expression and sulfotransferase activity. The increase in C4S following traumatic brain injury is because of contributions from impaired degradation and enhanced synthesis of C4S which combine in the pathogenesis of the glial scar. This is the first report of how two mechanisms contribute to the increase in chondroitin 4-sulfate (C4S) in TBI. Following penetrating ballistic-like brain injury in a rat model and in the scratch model of injury in fetal rat astrocytes, Arylsulfatase B activity declined, leading to accumulation of C4S. TGF-β1 exposure increased expression of chondroitin 4-sulfotransferase. Hence, the increase in C4S in TBI is attributable to both impaired degradation and enhanced synthesis, combining in the pathogenesis of the glial scar. © 2015 International Society for Neurochemistry.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/8053794> Family stressors in traumatic brain injury: a two-year follow-up.  A review of the literature suggests that psychosocial disability in traumatic brain-injured (TBI) individuals and distress in families continues long after the initial injury. In this study the relationship of family stress to a number of factors was studied longitudinally. Caregivers of 51 TBI inpatients were interviewed at rehabilitation admission and by phone at 6, 12, and 24 months postinjury. Caregivers' most common complaints about their relatives were a lack of involvement in leisure activities, fatigue, slowness, and forgetfulness. Increasingly severe temper outbursts, anxiety, and self-centeredness were reported over time. Aggressiveness was reported by caregivers as moderate or severe in 31% of cases by 2 years postinjury. Of all complaints, only reports of inappropriate social behavior decreased over time. Despite caregivers' increasing complaints about their relatives, there were no trends toward greater self-reported stress over time. At the 2-year assessment, stress was significantly higher for caregivers of those with an at risk psychosocial history, and for those without sufficient funds for services. Caregivers reporting financial strain increased 22% from rehabilitation admission. Forty-seven percent of caregivers had altered or given up their jobs at 1 year postinjury, and 33% at 2 years postinjury. Although self-perceived measurements of stress did not increase over time, caregivers reported notable increases in medication use and substance use, and decreases in employment and financial status over the 2-year time period. When spouse and parent caregiver responses were compared, spouses reported a consistently greater number of behavioral problems, which increased in severity over time. Those behaviors associated with mood disturbances predominated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
<doc id=BrainInjuries/883450> [Several pathophysiologic grounds for radical removal of contusion foci from the cerebral hemispheres].  Local circulation and PO2 of the cerebral tissue were studied in 26 patients during the acute period of a severe craniocerebral trauma. It was demonstrated that pronounced changes in the microcirculation developed in the area of the concussion focus in the cerebral hemispheres. Three zones of disorders in the local circulation were distinguished, and it was shown that in case of an unremoved concussion focus the extending of its necrosis zone took place. The most effective surgical management of patients with severe craniocerebral traumas attended by concussion foci is its radical removal.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/21943818> Transient hyperammonemia associated with postictal state in generalized convulsion.  Previous studies revealed that transient hyperammonemia was noted after generalized convulsion. This study was undertaken to analyze the association between postictal state and serum ammonia levels. Adult patients presenting to the emergency department with seizures were included. Serum ammonia and other blood tests were compared between patients with full recovery of consciousness after generalized convulsion and those who had not completely regained consciousness. Patients who had not completely regained consciousness (7 of 7, 100%) had higher rate (p=0.035) of hyperammonemia compared with patients who had fully regained consciousness (4 of 10, 40%) and higher level of serum ammonia (246 ± 96 μg/dL vs. 102 ± 99 μg/dL, p=0.006). All patients who showed postictal consciousness level impairment on arrival at the emergency department had elevated serum ammonia at that time. Transient hyperammonemia is associated with postictal confusion.Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier B.V.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/25313096> Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation use in patients with traumatic brain injury.  Venovenous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) is used for patients with severe, potentially reversible, respiratory failure unresponsive to conventional management. It is relatively contraindicated in patients with traumatic brain injury (TBI) due to bleeding complications and use of anticoagulation. We report two cases of TBI patients treated with ECMO. © The Author(s) 2014.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/19005366> Intra-arterial calcium channel blocker infusion for treatment of severe vasospasm in traumatic brain injury: case report.  The authors describe a case of severe traumatic arterial vasospasm and its subsequent management using angiography and multiple infusions of calcium channel blockers.A 26-year-old man presented with subarachnoid hemorrhage and an initial Glasgow Coma Scale score of 4 after a motor vehicle accident. The patient underwent a bifrontal craniotomy and right frontal decompressive craniectomy for bilateral frontal epidural and subdural hematomas secondary to subarachnoid hemorrhage.While the patient was in the intensive care unit, severe vasospasm developed, as documented by transcranial Doppler ultrasonography, cerebral blood flow monitoring, and angiography. The patient was treated on 3 separate days with either nicardipine or verapamil infusions during angiography. After each infusion, the middle cerebral artery diameter improved (diameter increased 23.1-60.5%). The arterial vasospasm eventually resolved after 22 days, and the patient was discharged to acute rehabilitation. Four months after discharge, the patient had a Barthel index of 90 and has relatively slow speech but was able to ambulate without assistance and follow complex commands.To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of multiple intra-arterial calcium channel blocker infusions for severe posttraumatic vasospasm, as assessed by transcranial Doppler ultrasonography, cerebral blood flow monitoring, and angiography. This case reinforces that arterial vasospasm does occur in response to traumatic brain injury and further demonstrates that treatment with calcium channel blocker infusions is associated with angiographic changes and a subsequent reversal of ischemic blood flow.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/28343407> What are the complications and emerging strategies for preventing depression following traumatic brain injury?  Depression is a common and disabling complication of traumatic brain injury (TBI). The high rates of post-TBI depression (PTBID) make this condition an important candidate for selective preventive interventions. Areas covered: The authors recently reported on the efficacy of sertraline, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), for the prevention of new cases of depression in the first six months after TBI. The authors review this and other studies on preventive strategies in PTBID as ascertained from a PubMed and citation search. The potential complications and barriers to the implementation of pharmacological prevention in patients with TBI are also discussed. Expert commentary: The prevention of depression in patients with TBI has received little attention relative to other medical conditions. Future studies are needed to confirm the benefit of SSRIs and investigate other pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions, including in special groups of patients at greater risk of developing PTBID.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/15354692> A web-based family problem-solving intervention for families of children with traumatic brain injury.  We developed a Web-based intervention for pediatric traumatic brain injury (TBI) and examined its feasibility for participants with limited computer experience. Six families, including parents, siblings, and children with TBI, were given computers, Web cameras, and high-speed Internet access. Weekly videoconferences with the therapist were conducted after participants completed on-line interactive experiences on problem solving, communication, and TBI-specific behavior management. Families were assigned to videoconference with NetMeeting (iBOT cameras) or ViaVideo. Participants ranked the Web site and videoconferences as moderately to very easy to use. ViaVideo participants rated videoconferencing significantly more favorably relative to face-to-face meetings than did NetMeeting participants. Both the Web site and videoconferencing were rated as very helpful. All families demonstrated improved outcomes on one or more target behaviors, including increased understanding of the injury and improved parent-child relationships. All parents and siblings and all but 1 child with TBI said they would recommend the program to others. We conclude that a face-to-face intervention can be successfully adapted to the Web for families with varied computer experience.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/23821380> Increased vesicular and vacuolar transendothelial transport in traumatic human brain oedema. A review.  The endothelial vacuolar and vesicular transports in traumatic human brain oedema have been reviewed and compared with experimental brain oedema in order to establish their role in both oedema formation and oedema resolution. Normal or non-activated and activated capillaries are found. The activated capillaries showed predominantly an enhanced abluminally orientated vesicular transport by means of small, medium and large uncoated and clathrin coated vesicles, as well as the presence of endothelial tubular structures. Activation of the endothelial nuclear zone is featured by the increased amount of micropinocytotic vesicles. Vesicles internalizing to the hypertrophic Golgi complex, lysosomes and multivesicular bodies are observed. The protein vacuolar transport is predominant in most cortical capillaries. A wide spectrum of endothelial cell mechanisms is observed increasing the vesicular and vacuolar transport, such as deep invaginations of the luminal surface, large coated vesicles, tubular structures, and transient and incomplete transendothelial channels formed either by chained plasmalemmal vesicles or elongated protein-containing vacuoles. Uncoated vesicles are seen surrounding lysosomes. Vesicular transport might be discriminated between abluminally orientated or transendothelial transport (oedema formation) and intraendothelial transport (oedema resolution) directed towards cell lysosomes to be degraded by lysosomal enzymes. The transendothelial passage via large vacuoles is mainly caused by macromolecular protein transport.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/8374124> [The action of blood plasma and cerebrospinal fluid on the functional properties of human hemoglobin].  The blood plasma increases the O2 affinity and acid-base capacity of haemoglobin. The coefficient lg p50/pH is 2-5 times higher than Bohr coefficient. The effect remains unchanged after boiling of plasma, increases after dilution of haemoglobin and decreases after boiling of plasma with ethanol. The cerebrospinal fluid also increases the O2-affinity of haemoglobin. Probable mechanisms of the phenomenon are discussed.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/14580948> Inhibition of neuronal nitric oxide synthase-mediated activation of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase in traumatic brain injury: neuroprotection by 3-aminobenzamide.  Focal traumatic injury to the cerebral cortex is associated with early activation of the neuronal isoform of nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), where high concentrations of nitric oxide-derived free radicals elicit extensive DNA damage. Subsequent activation of the nuclear repair enzyme poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) causes a severe energy deficit leading to the ultimate demise of affected neurons. Little is known about the temporal relationship of nNOS and PARP activation and the neuroprotective efficacy of their selective blockade in traumatic brain injury. To determine the relationship of nNOS and PARP activation, brain injury was induced by cryogenic lesion to the somatosensory cortex applying a pre-cooled cylinder after trephination for 6 s to the intact dura mater. Pre-treatment with 3-bromo-7-nitroindazole (BrNI; 25 mg/kg, i.p.), and pre- or combined pre- and post-treatment with 3-aminobenzamide (AB; 10 mg/kg (i.c.v.) or 10 mg/kg/h (i.p.)) were used to inhibit nNOS and PARP, respectively. Cold lesion-induced changes in the somatosensory cortex and neuroprotection by BrNI and AB were determined using immunocytochemistry and immunodot-blot for detection of poly(ADP-ribose; PAR), the end-product of PARP activation, and the triphenyltetrazolium-chloride assay to assess lesion volume. PAR immunoreactivity reached its peak 30 min post-lesion and was followed by gradual reduction of PAR immunolabeling. BrNI pre-treatment significantly decreased the lesion-induced PAR concentration in damaged cerebral cortex. Pre-treatment by i.c.v. infusion of AB markedly diminished cortical PAR immunoreactivity and significantly reduced the lesion volume 24 h post-injury. In contrast, i.p. AB treatment remained largely ineffective. In conclusion, our data indicate early activation of PARP after cold lesion that is, at least in part, related to nNOS induction and supports the relevance of nNOS and/or PARP inhibition to therapeutic approaches of traumatic brain injury.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/20127725> Psychiatric diagnoses among Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans screened for deployment-related traumatic brain injury.  The authors examined psychiatric diagnoses in administrative records for 13,201 United States military veterans who were screened for traumatic brain injury (TBI) in Department of Veterans Affairs facilities. Over 80% of the veterans with positive TBI screens had psychiatric diagnoses. Compared to veterans with negative TBI screens, those with positive screens, but without confirmed TBI status, were three times more likely to have a posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) diagnosis and were two times more likely to have depression and substance-related diagnoses. Among veterans with positive TBI screens, those with clinically confirmed TBI status were more likely than those without confirmed TBI status to have diagnoses for PTSD, anxiety, and adjustment disorders. These findings have implications for health care delivery and provider education.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/15761273> A review of rating scales for measuring behavior change due to frontal systems damage.  To perform a critical review of scales designed to measure frontal behavior change.Changes in cognition due to frontal disease or damage have been well described, but noncognitive changes in behavior are often more deleterious functionally for frontal patients.The review concentrates on five behavior rating scales: the Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Functions (BRIEF), the Dysexecutive Questionnaire (DEX), the Frontal Behavior Inventory (FBI), the Frontal Systems Behavior Scale (FrSBe), the Iowa Rating Scales of Personality Change (IRSPC), and the Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI). Other scales purporting to measure specific aspects of frontal functioning, but having less research support, are described briefly.The BRIEF and FrSBe have good reliability and large-scale norms. No norms are available for the other scales. The FrSBe and IRSPC have been shown to be valid in discriminating frontal from nonfrontal lesioned patients, but this has not been shown in the other scales. The FBI and NPI require trained raters, whereas the FrSBe, IRSPC, and BRIEF are administered to patients and/or family informants directly. The NPI and FBI are sensitive to certain changes in behavior attributed to frontal systems disruption but have been used primarily in dementia.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/21970544> High-strain-rate brain injury model using submerged acute rat brain tissue slices.  Blast-induced traumatic brain injury (bTBI) has received increasing attention in recent years due to ongoing military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. Sudden impacts or explosive blasts generate stress and pressure waves that propagate at high velocities and affect sensitive neurological tissues. The immediate soft tissue response to these stress waves is difficult to assess using current in vivo imaging technologies. However, these stress waves and resultant stretching and shearing of tissue within the nano- to microsecond time scale of blast and impact are likely to cause initial injury. To visualize the effects of stress wave loading, we have developed a new ex vivo model in which living tissue slices from rat brain, attached to a ballistic gelatin substrate, were subjected to high-strain-rate loads using a polymer split Hopkinson pressure bar (PSHPB) with real-time high-speed imaging. In this study, average peak fluid pressure within the test chamber reached a value of 1584±63.3 psi. Cavitation due to a trailing underpressure wave was also observed. Time-resolved images of tissue deformation were collected and large maximum eigenstrains (0.03-0.42), minimum eigenstrains (-0.33 to -0.03), maximum shear strains (0.09-0.45), and strain rates (8.4×10³/sec) were estimated using digital image correlation (DIC). Injury at 4 and 6 h was quantified using Fluoro-Jade C. Neuronal injury due to PSHPB testing was found to be significantly greater than injury associated with the tissue slice paradigm alone. While large pressures and strains were encountered for these tests, this system provides a controllable test environment to study injury to submerged brain slices over a range of strain rate, pressure, and strain loads.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/11974987> Satisfaction of life and late psycho-social outcome after severe brain injury: a nine-year follow-up study in Aquitaine.  In view of assessing their late outcome and satisfaction of life, 79 out of 158 severe traumatic brain injury (STBI) patients who received inpatient rehabilitation in Aquitaine in 1993 were followed by phone interview. Results showed that 9 years on average after their injury, 65 to 85% of these patients were independent for daily living, whereas 35 to 55% only were independent in social life. Most of the patients were satisfied with their autonomy (67%), family life (66%) and financial status (41%), but they were dissatisfied with leisures (36%), vocational adjustment (28%) and sexual life (32%). Satisfaction of life was mostly related to age, gender, physical autonomy, need of help because of cognitive impairment and functional outcome as assessed by the Glasgow Outcome Scale. Severe traumatic brain injury (STBI) stands in industrialised countries as a major Public Health problem and a dreadful human drama for the patients, their families and the community [2]. A great number of STBI patients survive with severe disability, most of them being young adults. The most severely impaired may live only with their parents or in high-cost nursing homes. From a psychological point of view, STBI causes a total and sudden breakdown of the mental states, personality and conditions of life. Life plans and projects are definitively disrupted, satisfaction of life is deeply changed. Rehabilitation aims at improving functional outcome of persons with STBI, and at improving their overall quality of life. Planning for rehabilitation and re-entry into community of STBI patients need to be provided with precise data on their late outcome and disability level. Despite that the concepts of quality and satisfaction of life are difficult to define and moreover to assess, these are also major factors to take into account. The aims of the present study were to assess the late psycho-social outcome of patients hospitalized in Aquitaine for rehabilitation of a STBI 7 to 10 years after their injury, and to ask for their satisfaction of life and subjective feeling of quality of life.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/19433425> Is there a gender difference in concussion incidence and outcomes?  To determine if there is a gender difference in the incidence and outcomes of sport concussion.Critical literature review of sport concussion by gender.PubMed and major sports medicine journals were reviewed using the keywords concussion and gender. Articles included in this paper were English prospective surveillance that included concussion as an injury option conducted over the past 10 years, involved data collected by qualified medical personnel (athletic trainers/therapists or medical doctors) and used injury rates as opposed to raw counts. Only data from sports (soccer, basketball and ice hockey) where actions, equipment and most rules were similar between genders were reviewed.For the PubMed search, using concussion and gender as keywords, there were 51 articles. Ten studies (four in football (soccer), four in basketball and two in ice hockey, including high school, college and professional athletes) were included in the incidence portion of the paper. Nine of the studies showed higher absolute injury rates for female concussion compared to their male counterparts with four of them reaching statistical significance. Five of the studies (two football (soccer), two basketball and one ice hockey) examined concussion mechanism and in all cases, males had a higher absolute percent of player contact concussions while females had a higher absolute percentage of surface or ball contact concussion episodes. Two brain injury and four sport concussion outcome papers were reviewed. Traumatic brain injury outcome was shown to be worse in females than in males for a majority of measured variables; females also are shown to have different baseline and post-concussion outcomes on neuropsychological testing.After evaluating multiple years of concussion data in comparable sports, the evidence indicates that female athletes may be at greater risk for concussion than their male counterparts. There also is some evidence that gender differences exist in outcomes of traumatic brain injury and concussions. Because concussion is a clinical diagnosis often depending on self reporting and with no established biological marker or consistent symptoms/definitions, and because there is evidence that females are more honest in reporting general injuries than males, it is unclear whether the concussion incidence data, while generally consistent in showing a higher risk in females as compared to males in similar sports, is a true difference or is influenced by a reporting bias.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/22075676> Diagnosing and treating mild traumatic brain injury in children.  Review of recent evidence with translation to practice for the advanced practice nurse role is presented using a case study format for Mild Traumatic Brain Injury in Children. This short review describes the state of the science regarding diagnosis and treatment of mild traumatic brain injury in children, demonstrating multiple challenges to synthesizing existing research into practice guidelines. Implications of this lack of clear research evidence on advanced practice nursing are discussed along with suggestions for using alternative sources of evidence.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/2896437> [Treatment and results in severe craniocerebral trauma].  Treatment of severe craniocerebral traumas in medium and major hospitals not provided with special neurosurgical equipment requires particularly close interdisciplinary cooperation between surgeons, neurologists and anaesthesiologists. CT facilities are an essential prerequisite for best possible patient care. Patient safety during the posttraumatic and postoperative phases is improved by measuring the intracranial pressure. Whereas corticosteroid treatment may be arguable, barbiturate treatment should presently not be a routine procedure because of its side effects and high rate of complications.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/26616403> Analysis of the protective effects of a neuronal Cav2.1 calcium channel in brain injury.  We previously reported that rolling Nagoya mice carrying a mutation in the α1 subunit of the Cav2.1 channel protective from ischemia- and kainate-induced neuronal damage. However, the protective effect of this mutation and its relationship to brain injury recovery have not been examined. To examine the relationship between Cav2.1 channel function and brain injury, we induced cryogenic brain damage in homozygous rolling Nagoya (rol/rol), control wild-type (+/+), ω-agatoxin IVA-pretreated +/+ (ω-aga +/+), and ω-agatoxin IVA-post-treated +/+ (ω-aga-post-treated +/+) mice. We measured the lesion area, blood brain-barrier permeability and performed immunohistochemistry and western blot analysis. The lesions of rol/rol and ω-aga +/+ mice were significantly smaller than those observed in +/+ mice at both day 1 and day 7 after injury. Similar results were shown in blood-brain barrier permeability. We observed more reactive astrogliosis in +/+ mice than in rol/rol or ω-aga +/+ mice. rol/rol and ω-aga +/+ mice had fewer degenerating cells due to cryogenic injury than did +/+ mice at both day 1 and day 7. ω-Aga-post-treated +/+ mice 24h after injury were sacrificed on day 7. The lesions were smaller in ω-aga-post-treated +/+ mice than those in vehicle-treated +/+ mice. We also examined phosphorylated p38 (pp38) at the injured site. ω-Aga-post-treated +/+ mouse brain slices showed weak pp38 signal; vehicle-treated +/+ mouse brain slices were pp38-positive. These findings demonstrate that the mutant Cav2.1 channel exerts a protective effect against cryogenic brain injury in rolling Nagoya mice. Our results indicate that inhibitors of the Cav2.1-dependent p38 signaling cascade would be useful as therapeutic agents in the treatment of brain injury. Copyright © 2015 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/18442925> Thresholding lesion overlap difference maps: application to category-related naming and recognition deficits.  Lesion overlap difference maps have been used in studies designed to test anatomical hypotheses regarding brain systems critical for various cognitive and behavioral tasks, including naming and recognition of concrete entities [Damasio, H., Tranel, D., Grabowski, T., Adolphs, R., Damasio, A., 2004. Neural systems behind word and concept retrieval. Cognition 92, 179-229]. To date, the interpretation of these results has focused on areas of maximum lesion overlap differences. Here we explore formal methods for statistical thresholding and power analysis. We derive exact voxel-wise statistics describing the behavior of lesion overlap difference maps and lesion proportion difference maps under the null hypothesis of no association between lesion and deficit, and we apply the statistics to a large subset of the subjects previously reported in [Damasio, H., Tranel, D., Grabowski, T., Adolphs, R., Damasio, A., 2004. Neural systems behind word and concept retrieval. Cognition 92, 179-229], in order to reassess the lesion correlates of deficits in naming and recognition for five categories of concrete entities. The thresholded maps confirmed many of the results reported previously, but also revealed some differences. Differences in spatial distribution of the lesion correlates of impaired naming of unique versus nonunique entities were confirmed in the inferotemporal region (IT), although overlapping components across categories became apparent in left IT. Additionally, the left inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) was implicated in naming both categories of nonunique natural entities (animals and fruits/vegetables). In corresponding power analyses, we estimated where significant effects could be found under an assumption of maximal effect size given the observed spatial distribution of lesions. Such effective coverage maps are valuable for the interpretation of the results, notably because of heterogeneity in lesion coverage encountered in lesion studies. We strongly suggest that when inferential statistics are used in voxel-wise lesion-deficit statistical mapping, these or other power maps be included in the reports.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/8498815> Dopamine agonist treatment of antegrade amnesia from a mediobasal forebrain injury.  We studied the persistent antegrade memory impairment in a woman whose brain had been surgically impaled, leaving a 1-cm-wide mediobasal tract of encephalomalacia that extended just anterior to the septal nuclei and medial to the nucleus accumbens. In a blinded, controlled, alternating repeated-measures protocol, bromocriptine significantly improved her verbal learning, functional memory, and daily recall, perhaps by acting on neurons that had been disconnected from the ventral tegmental tract's dopaminergic inputs.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/17071052> The effects of mild and severe traumatic brain injury on speed of information processing as measured by the computerized tests of information processing (CTIP).  In spite of the fact that reaction time (RT) measures are sensitive to the effects of traumatic brain injury (TBI), few RT procedures have been developed for use in standard clinical evaluations. The computerized test of information processing (CTIP) [Tombaugh, T. N., & Rees, L. (2000). Manual for the computerized tests of information processing (CTIP). Ottawa, Ont.: Carleton University] was designed to measure the degree to which TBI decreases the speed at which information is processed. The CTIP consists of three computerized programs that progressively increase the amount of information that is processed. Results of the current study demonstrated that RT increased as the difficulty of the CTIP tests increased (known as the complexity effect), and as severity of injury increased (from mild to severe TBI). The current study also demonstrated the importance of selecting a non-biased measure of variability. Overall, findings suggest that the CTIP is an easy to administer and sensitive measure of information processing speed.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/10350255> Contribution of polyamine oxidase to brain injury after trauma.  The possible role of the polyamine interconversion pathway on edema formation, traumatic injury volume, and tissue polyamine levels after traumatic brain injury (TBI) was studied using an inhibitor of the interconversion pathway enzyme, polyamine oxidase.Experimental TBI was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats by using a controlled cortical impact device at a velocity of 3 m/second, resulting in a 2-mm deformation. Immediately after TBI was induced, 100 mg/kg of N1,N4-bis(2,3-butadienyl)-1,4-butanediamine 2HCl (MDL 72527) or saline was injected intraperitoneally. Brain water content and tissue polyamine levels were measured at 24 hours after TBI. Traumatic injury volume was evaluated using 2% cresyl violet solution 7 days after TBI occurred. The MDL 72527 treatment significantly reduced brain edema (80.4+/-0.8% compared with 81.2+/-1.2%, p < 0.05) and injury volume (30.1+/-6.6 mm3 compared with 42.7+/-13.3 mm3, p < 0.05) compared with the saline treatment. The TBI caused a significant increase in tissue putrescine levels at the traumatized site (65.5+/-26.5 nmol/g [corrected] in the cortex and 70.9+/-22.4 nmol/g [corrected] in the hippocampus) compared with the nontraumatized site (7+/-2.4 nmol/g [corrected] in the cortex and 11.4+/-6.4 nmol/g [corrected] in the hippocampus). The increase in putrescine levels in both the traumatized and nontraumatized cortex and hippocampus was reduced by a mean of 60% with MDL 72527 treatment.These results demonstrate, for the first time, that the polyamine interconversion pathway has an important role in the increase of putrescine levels after TBI and that the polyamine oxidase inhibitors, blockers of the interconversion pathway, can be neuroprotective against edema formation and necrotic cavitation after TBI.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/861709> Recovery patterns and prognosis in aphasia.  Ninety-three aphasics were studied with repeated language assessment by a scorable test (the Western Aphasia Battery). Recovery rates were determined by measuring language performance (Aphasia Quotient) at nought to forty-five days post-onset, and three, six and twelve months and yearly after. Recovery rates were higher in post-traumatic than in cerebrovascular cases. When the stable infarcts were separately studied, the greatest recovery was seen in Broca's aphasics, followed by the conduction group. Anomic aphasia appeared to be a common end-stage of evolution. Long-term follow-up (twelve months or more) demonstrated that global aphasics have a poor prognosis, while Broca's and Wernicke's have an intermediate one. Complete recovery occurred frequently among anomic, conduction and transcortical aphasics and in more than half of the traumatic cases. Initial severity and outcome correlated significantly. Age and rate of initial recovery showed a trend of negative correlation; younger patients recovered better, but there were frequent exceptions, depending on other factors, such as the initial severity of aphasia. Although some cases recovered exceptionally well while under therapy, there was no significant difference between the treated and untreated groups, where such a comparison was possible.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/3843734> Environmental influences on locomotor recovery following cortical lesions in rats.  Groups of rats were exposed to an enriched environment 2 hr per day for 30 days during the immediate pre- and/or postoperative period, or not at all. Animals in four of these groups sustained lesions in the bilateral sensorimotor cortex. One sham-operated control group was enriched pre- and postoperatively; a second control group was not. Animals were trained preoperatively to locomote across a narrow elevated runway. Testing on the locomotor task began 31 days after surgery and continued until preoperative performance levels were achieved. Preoperative enrichment had the most potent influence on initial deficit and recovery of locomotion. Animals that were enriched preoperatively failed to demonstrate any deficit postoperatively, and the topology of their hindlimb movement appeared to be normal. In preoperatively impoverished animals, postoperative enrichment reduced the degree of initial deficit and speeded recovery of locomotion when compared with animals not enriched at all. However, preoperatively impoverished rats demonstrated an aberrant topology of hindlimb movement even after they were behaviorally recovered.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/27215872> Rehabilitation of the Combat Casualty: Lessons Learned from Past and Current Conflicts.  The field of rehabilitation is deeply rooted in military medicine, especially in promoting the restoration of function and community reintegration of injured service members returning from war. Since military operations began in Iraq and Afghanistan over a decade ago, rehabilitative care programs have been integral in supporting the Military Healthcare System in providing high quality comprehensive care for combat casualties and their families, particularly those with complex blast injuries resulting in conditions such as amputation and other limb dysfunction, traumatic brain injury, and spinal cord injury. Fundamental to a successful rehabilitation program is the coordination of interdisciplinary care that not only crosses multiple medical specialties and disciplines, but also promotes ongoing education, research, quality improvement and readiness. This brief article is intended to highlight some of the most important lessons learned from current and past conflicts in delivering the highest quality rehabilitative care to our nation's heroes. 
<doc id=BrainInjuries/17522991> Comparison of the O-Log and GOAT as measures of posttraumatic amnesia.  To compare PTA severity and duration assessments made by Orientation Log (O-Log) and the Galveston Orientation and Amnesia Test (GOAT) and the relationship of data yielded by these assessments to rehabilitation outcomes.Retrospective study.O-Log, GOAT, demographic, length of stay, and Functional Independence Measure (FIM) data among 83 inpatient subjects with recent TBI requiring inpatient care were reviewed.PTA severity and duration as assessed by the O-Log and the GOAT are statistically similar and correlate similarly with rehabilitation LOS and discharge total FIM score. Simple linear regression models suggest that O-Log scores better predict rehabilitation outcomes than GOAT scores.Although the O-Log and GOAT perform similarly as measures of PTA severity and duration, PTA assessments using the O-Log offers better prediction of rehabilitation outcomes. Further study of the O-Log as an alternate assessment of PTA is warranted.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/22631691> Outcome after severe brain trauma due to acute subdural hematoma.  In this paper, the authors' goal was to identify factors contributing to outcomes after severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) due to acute subdural hematoma (SDH).Between February 2002 and April 2010, 17 Austrian centers prospectively enrolled 863 patients with moderate and severe TBI into observational studies. Data regarding accident, treatment, and outcomes were collected. Data sets from patients who had severe TBI (Glasgow Coma Scale score < 9) and acute SDH were selected. Six-month outcomes were classified as favorable if the Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS) scores were 5 or 4, and they were classified as unfavorable if GOS scores were 3 or less. The Rotterdam score was used to classify CT findings, and the scores published by Hukkelhoven et al. were used to estimate the predicted rates of death and of unfavorable outcomes. Univariate (Fisher exact test, t-test, chi-square test) and multivariate (logistic regression) statistics were used to identify factors associated with hospital mortality and favorable outcome.Of the 738 patients with severe TBI, 360 (49%) had acute SDH. Of these, 168 (46.7%) died in the hospital, 67 (18.6%) survived with unfavorable outcome, and 116 (32.2%) survived with favorable outcome. Long-term outcome was unknown in 9 survivors (2.5%). Mortality rates predicted by the Rotterdam CT score showed good correlation with observed mortality rates. According to the Hukkelhoven scores, observed/predicted ratios for mortality and unfavorable outcome were 1.09 and 1.02, respectively.Age, severity of TBI, and neurological status were the main factors influencing outcomes after severe TBI due to acute SDH. Nonoperative management was associated with significantly higher mortality.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/19434306> Central nervous system aging and regeneration after injuries. A systematic approach.  Aging is associated with a decline of locomotor, sensory and cognitive performance in humans and experimental animals. Mechanistically, organismal senescence is caused by a gradual, lifelong accumulation of multifaceted molecular and cellular damage. Further, the rate and pattern of organismal senescence may be regulated in part by changes in multiple genes involved in multiple processes. While this theory is supported by genetic data in lower organisms, a lack of direct experimental evidence in higher organisms has contributed to a broader acceptance of the stochastic aging model, in which accumulating, random damaging biological events play an important role. However, these insults alone cannot account for the inexorable deterioration and loss of function that characterizes old biological systems of higher complexity like humans. Recent advances in unbiased gene expression profiling of the entire genome is a valuable tool for the study of complex biological phenomena such as aging. Using this technology, it is now possible to analyze in detail gene expression at the systems level. In the past decade with the advent of high-throughput technologies, biology has migrated from a descriptive science to a predictive. Most importantly, data from animal models has shown that senescent systems do retain some capacity for regeneration and functional recovery after injuries.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/9640073> [Diagnostic difficulties with skull and brain injury complications in alcoholic patients].  About 20% of patients treated because of craniocerebral injuries are those after an alcohol intake. Great number of these patients slightly bodily injured without any focal cerebral deficit are stopped by police. The effects of injuries masked by the picture of alcohol intoxication are developed during that time. Published data and authors of this paper observations show that atypical clinical picture, lack of typical, specific disturbances of cerebral function make diagnosing of the effect of craniocerebral injuries difficult. To avoid diagnostic errors in inebriate patients with head injuries, the degree of cerebral function disturbances together with life-threatening risk factors should be carefully evaluated. Afterwards the range of diagnostic methods can be established. If the wide range of diagnostics is not necessary, patients should be observed over the period of a few hours. The authors present original 63-points Scale of Brainstem Insufficiency (ITC). This ITC scale assesses: consciousness, the whole body movements, vegetative functions (breath temperature, blood pressure, pulse), pupils and eye movements movements. This scale can be used for evaluation of global cerebral function disturbances observed in not only craniocerebral injuries but in alcohol intoxication as well.
<doc id=BrainInjuries/19850973> Encapsulated living choroid plexus cells: potential long-term treatments for central nervous system disease and trauma.  In neurodegenerative disease and in acute brain injury, there is often local up-regulation of neurotrophin production close to the site of the lesion. Treatment by direct injection of neurotrophins and growth factors close to these lesion sites has repeatedly been demonstrated to improve recovery. It has therefore been proposed that transplanting viable neurotrophin-producing cells close to the trauma lesion, or site of degenerative disease, might provide a novel means for continuous delivery of these molecules directly to the site of injury or to a degenerative region. The aim of this paper is to summarize recent published information and present new experimental data that indicate that long-lasting therapeutic implants of choroid plexus (CP) neuroepithelium may be used to treat brain disease. CP produces and secretes numerous biologically active neurotrophic factors (NT). New gene microarray and proteomics data presented here indicate that many other anti-oxidant, anti-toxin and neuronal support proteins are also produced and secreted by CP cells. In the healthy brain, these circulate in the cerebrospinal fluid through the brain and spinal cord, maintaining neuronal networks and associated cells. Recent publications describe how transplanted CP cells and tissue, either free or in an immunoprotected encapsulated form, can effectively deliver therapeutic molecules when placed near the lesion or site of degenerative disease in animal models. Using simple techniques, CP neuroepithelial cell clusters in suspension culture were very durable, remaining viable for 6 months or more in vitro. The cell culture conditions had little effect on the wide range and activity of genes expressed and proteins secreted. Recently, completed experiments show that implanting CP within alginate-poly-ornithine capsules effectively protected these xenogeneic cells from the host immune system and allowed their survival for 6 months or more in the brains of rats, causing no adverse effects. Previously reported evidence demonstrated that CP cells support the survival and differentiation of neuronal cells in vitro and effectively treat acute brain injury and disease in rodents and non-human primates in vivo. The accumulated preclinical data together with the long-term survival of implanted encapsulated cells in vivo provide a sound base for the investigation of these treatments for chronic inherited and established neurodegenerative conditions.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/20662212> [Interventional bronchoscopy].  Patients with malignant obstruction of the central airway have been treated by interventional bronchoscopy such as Nd-YAG laser and airway stenting. These palliative therapies contribute to improving and maintaining the QOL of the patients. Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is one of the bronchoscopic therapy for centrally located early stage squamous cell carcinoma of the lung. PDT uses photosensitizing agents that accumulate in malignant tissue and can be activated by a laser energy.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/20559179> 'As long as it helps somebody': why vulnerable people participate in research.  In the past, ethics committees and researchers have avoided research among vulnerable groups because of prevailing perceptions that such research is unethical and difficult. Taking an opposite stand, this article will argue that it is in fact unethical not to research vulnerable populations because, by excluding potential participants from research endeavours, they are being deprived of the benefits to be gained from research. Albeit well meaning, people in vulnerable populations are also being subjected to the paternalistic attitudes of those who believe they know what is in the best interests of others. There is ample evidence in existing literature that, not only is research among vulnerable populations unlikely to result in harm, but there are often benefits to be gained by both participants and researchers. Apart from the generic benefits of increased knowledge and improved health interventions, specific benefits for participants might be: therapeutic, cathartic, educational, empowering, altruistic and social. In contrast, the risks associated with researching vulnerable populations appear to be minimal. Yet, there is still evidence that health care professionals and other gatekeepers continue to hinder research amongst vulnerable populations through unilateral decision-making. This article will review existing literature on the topic of research amongst vulnerable populations, as well as contribute to the argument from the author's own study on a sensitive topic.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/1371043> Endoprosthetic replacement for bony metastases.  A series of 38 patients with long bone metastases treated at the Birmingham Bone Tumour Treatment Service with resection of the metastatic lesion and replacement of the bone defect with an endoprosthesis was reviewed. The majority of cases had pathological fractures due to a massive destructive lesion. Two-thirds of the patients had a solitary metastasis. Metastases from hypernephroma and breast carcinoma accounted for the majority of cases. All the patients were independently mobile after the endoprosthetic replacement and were pain free. The average survival rate after the endoprosthetic replacement was 14.7 months and this varies with the primary tumour. The indications for endoprosthetic replacement for the treatment of long bone metastases are outlined and the results and complications are discussed. It is concluded that endoprosthetic replacement for bony metastases is an effective palliative procedure for a selected group of patients.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/9586674> The early clinical history of salicylates in rheumatology and pain.  The first clinical reports on the treatment of fever and pain with salicylate-containing natural willow bark remedies were made by the English clergyman Edward Stone in 1763. The pharmacologically active principles were isolated from natural sources by Italian, German and French scientists between 1826 and 1829. Salicylic acid was first synthesised by the German Gerland in 1852 and a year later the Frenchman Gerhardt synthesised acetylsalicylic acid. The first reports on the clinical use of salicylic acid in rheumatic disorders were made independently by the two German physicians Stricher and Reiss in 1876. Acetylsalicylic acid was rediscovered by Hoffmann in 1897 and by the turn of the century it had gained worldwide recognition in the treatment of pain and rheumatological disorders. Reports on adverse events relating to gastrointestinal intolerance and bleeding appeared early, but were largely neglected until the 1950s. Today, salicylates are still widely used as analgesic, antipyretic and anti-inflammatory drugs. New indications, such as thrombosis prophylaxis, have emerged during the last decades, and yet others are being explored.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/15541615> Whole-patient assessment, goal planning, and inflection points: their role in achieving quality end-of-life care.  This article provides a framework for performing whole-patient assessment and goal planning. These clinical tasks involve a multidisciplinary, multidimensional, patient-centered approach to care and a deep appreciation for the complex interplay between the physical, psychological, social, and spiritual aspects of the human experience of dying. This article stresses the iterative nature of whole-patient assessment and goal planning, both of which should be conducted at certain important junctures in a patient's progression to manage effectively the evolving challenges faced by terminally ill persons and their families. This article also provides suggestions on successfully managing the communication challenges in caring for patients near the end of life and their family.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/1285348> [Symptomatic treatment of pain in cervico-facial cancers].  Pain is frequent in patients presenting cervico-facial cancers. It can be acute or persistent, or present at the morbid entity known as chronic pain. The specific anatomical site and the often poor environment explain that the physical disability related to pain is increased by multiple psychosocial problems. Multidisciplinary care management by several actors is required and can be facilitated by a simple decision-making model. The schema presented can be used to prompt discussion and criticism. It needs constant improvement and extensions in order to reach a consensual attitude towards this king of suffering but also towards other situations of pain care management frequently encountered in cancer patients as well as those with other pathologies.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/14991117> [Taxanes in the chemotherapy of hormone-refractory prostate carcinoma].  Prostate cancer represents one of the most prevalent malignancies in men. Standard therapy of metastatic prostate cancer consists of androgen deprivation, which is a palliative therapy yielding a clinical response of limited duration. In hormone-refractory prostate cancer (HRPC), response to chemotherapy with regimens available until about ten years ago has been disappointing. Nowadays, due to increasing life expectancy and earlier diagnosis and therapy of prostate cancer, more patients with hormone-refractory disease are still in relatively good overall condition. With the taxanes, much more effective cytostatic substances for chemotherapy of HRPC are available today. Using modern taxane-based chemotherapy, effective palliation of pain can be achieved in 50-70% of patients with HRPC, while retaining an acceptable quality of life. There is also evidence for improved overall survival after taxane-based chemotherapy, although this remains to be proven by ongoing studies. This article presents an overview of current studies investigating the outcome after taxane-based chemotherapy, as well as new therapeutic approaches in combination with docetaxel.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/9427446> Osteosarcoma of the jaw bones.  Osteosarcoma of the jaw bone is comparatively rare and accounts for about 6.5% of all osteosarcomas. We treated eight cases of osteosarcoma of the jaw bone involving the mandible and maxilla in equal proportions between 1986-1992. The median age was 31 years and male: female ratio was 5:3. Swelling and bony expansion were the most common presentations. Radiologically six patients had lytic lesions, and histopathologically they were osteoblastic (n = 4), chondroblastic (n = 3) and fibroblastic (n = 1). Three patients, two with mandibular and one with maxillary osteosarcoma underwent radical surgery and six courses of cisplatinum-based chemotherapy. All were alive and disease free 24, 30, and 54 months after treatment. Histologically all three were chondroblastic. Five patients had incomplete or palliative treatment. All patients died of progressive or locally recurrent disease within 2 years.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/7544560> [Cancer of the rectum in young adults. Apropos of 38 cases].  This retrospective study is based upon 38 cases of rectal carcinomas occurring in young individuals aged under 25, collected during the 15 year period from January 1978 to December 1993. The mean age of the patients was 23 (range: 14 to 25), with a gender ratio of 2.1. Histology revealed a well differentiated adenocarcinoma in 12 cases, a moderately or slightly differentiated and undifferentiated carcinoma in 14 cases, a colloid carcinoma in 10 cases and a villous tumor with malignant change in 2 cases. Curative surgical excision was possible in only 11 patients. Sixteen patients underwent a palliative procedure, while 12 refused surgery. No treatment was proposed to 3 patients with visceral metastases. Only 11 patients could be followed up, with a mean 5-year survival rate of 10%. The prognosis of rectal carcinoma in young individuals is poor because of late diagnosis at an advanced stage and the aggressive histologic forms encountered.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/12693647> A prospective study of the pathophysiology and clinical characteristics of pain in a palliative medicine population.  Comprehensive pain evaluation is requisite for optimal management. Few studies have evaluated pain syndromes and adequacy of associated analgesic regimens in one population. Available studies in cancer populations have focused on ambulatory patients or hospice-type inpatients. This study was designed to evaluate multiple characteristics of pain and adequacy of therapy in a broad spectrum of patients with advanced cancer presenting to a palliative medicine service. One hundred pain patients (95 with cancer) underwent a comprehensive pain evaluation consisting of history, physical examination, review of available diagnostics, and a pain assessment tool designed for routine clinical use. Seventy-one percent of 141 evaluable patients reported pain in the month before referral. In these 100 patients, 158 distinct sites of pain were reported, with 88 percent reporting a maximum of 2. Pain due to tumor was the most common cause (68 percent), and the most common pathophysiologic mechanism, somatic (52 percent). Pain was almost equally divided between continuous (48 percent) and intermittent (52 percent). Breakthrough pain occurred in 75 percent of continuous pains. Of these, 30 percent were exclusively incidental, 26percent nonincidental, and 16 percent due to end-of-dose failure. The remainder was of mixed etiology, but almost always with an incidental component. Of intermittent pain syndromes, 61 percent were incidental. On referral, analgesic dosing was inadequate and was compounded by use of regimens that typically did not meet peer-reviewed guidelines. Comprehensive studies rigorously evaluating characteristics of pain and response to treatment are a necessary first step toward more effective treatments for difficult pain syndromes.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/85371> [The efficacy of radiohypophysectomy with yttrium 90 in metastatic breast cancer (author's transl)].  Radiohypophysectomy in 176 women with metastatic breast cancer, treated over the past 20 years, did not prolong life, but relieved pain in almost half of the patients. This procedure can be carried out quickly and without risk even in severly debilitated patients.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/7516091> [Which way ahead? Carcinoma of the exocrine pancreas, the gallbladder and the bile ducts--nonsurgical therapy in the locally advanced and in the metastasized stage].  Carcinomas of the pancreas, gallbladder and bile ducts in inoperable stages can be treated with chemotherapy, radiotherapy and a combination of both modalities. Therapy is always palliative. In the past 20 years treatment results have not improved. Patients treated should be entered in controlled clinical studies with new substances randomized versus less toxic 5-FU or optimum supportive care. Pain and jaundice can be relieved by radiotherapy, bypass surgery and stent insertion. The choice of an option should be made according to patient characteristics and risk factors, as well as the possibilities and experience of the treating center.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/49095> [Primary radiotherapeutic eutic results of uterine carcinoma in the years 1960 to 1968].  A report is given of 448 cases of corpus carcinoma, treated by primary radiotherapy in the I-st Gynecological University Hospital in the years 1960 to 1968.  The 5-years-healing rate in this period was 50.4 percent.  It is emphasized that the cases represent a negative selection, as only inbetween the ages of 61 and 90 years.  Two women died primarily from pulmonary embolism (0.4 percent).  In  two patients a rectovaginal fistula developed.  The increasing number of patients with diabetes mellitus (23.2 percent) is striking.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/15835336> NICE guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of lung cancer.  Lung cancer is the most common cause of cancer death, accounting for nearly 30,000 deaths in England and Wales in 2002 (DoH, 2005). On February 23 this year new guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of lung cancer were published by the National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE, 2005). The guidelines offer best practice advice on the care of adults who are suspected of having, or are diagnosed with, lung cancer (Box 1). There are implications for lung cancer clinical nurse specialists in several sections of the guidance, some highlighted as a 'key priority' for implementation.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/20552923> Symptom control in stem cell transplantation: a multidisciplinary palliative care team approach. Part 1: Physical symptoms.  Stem cell transplantation (SCT) offers a potential cure for patients with otherwise incurable benign and malignant disorders, but the arduous SCT process may cause considerable physical, social, psychological, and spiritual suffering. Relief of suffering associated with SCT begins by understanding the patient experience and the SCT culture. Symptom burden is the combined impact of all disease- or therapy-related symptoms on the patient's ability to function. In approaching symptom management, the division between physical and psychological symptoms is blurred; physical symptoms are often interrelated with the patient's emotional status and social support. Physical symptoms that frequently occur in SCT include pain, nausea, mucositis, diarrhea, and delirium. At the same time, SCT is recognized as one of the most stressful treatments in modern cancer care, resulting in psychological distress, social isolation, and role changes. Psychological symptoms include depression/ anxiety, grief/loss, demoralization, and anger. Based on our experience on an academic SCT ward for adults, we review physical, psychological, social, and spiritual symptoms during the course of SCT in a two-part series and offer an approach to their management. This month, in part I, we focus on physical symptoms linked to SCT. In a future issue, part II will highlight psychosocial concerns in SCT.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/24301842> Oncologist factors that influence referrals to subspecialty palliative care clinics.  Recent research and professional guidelines support expanded use of outpatient subspecialty palliative care in oncology, but provider referral practices vary widely. We sought to explore oncologist factors that influence referrals to outpatient palliative care.Multisite, qualitative interview study at three academic cancer centers in the United States with well-established palliative care clinics. Seventy-four medical oncologists participated in semistructured interviews between February and October 2012. The interview guide asked about experiences and decision making regarding outpatient palliative care use. A multidisciplinary team analyzed interview transcripts using constant comparative methods to inductively develop and refine themes related to palliative care referral decisions.We identified three main oncologist barriers to subspecialty palliative care referrals at sites with comprehensive palliative care clinics: persistent conceptions of palliative care as an alternative philosophy of care incompatible with cancer therapy, a predominant belief that providing palliative care is an integral part of the oncologist's role, and a lack of knowledge about locally available services. Participants described their views of subspecialty palliative care as evolving in response to increasing availability of services and positive referral experiences, but emphasized that views of palliative care as valuable in addition to standard oncology care were not universally shared by oncologists.Improving provision of palliative care in oncology will likely require efforts beyond increasing service availability. Raising awareness of ways in which subspecialty palliative care complements standard oncology care and developing ways for oncologists and palliative care physicians to collaborate and integrate their respective skills may help.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/1704080> Squamous carcinoma of the distal esophagus: a survival study.  A survival study for squamous carcinomas of the distal esophagus treated by the Southern California Permanente Medical Group in the interval of 1954 to 1988 was undertaken. We found radiation therapy and surgery equally efficacious in terms of cure for patients without distant disease and performance status sufficient to tolerate treatment. We did not find survival benefit for patients treated with palliative surgery, and plan less invasive endoscopic means along with chemotherapy and radiation for palliation, reserving surgery for special circumstances.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/25734464> Palliative management of malodorous squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity with Manuka honey.  The management of malignant malodorous wounds within the oral cavity can be challenging due to limited availability of dressings that are safe, efficacious, and ingestible.An 80-year-old woman with squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity was admitted to home care with complaints and distress related to extreme malodor.Manuka honey proved a safe, effective, palliative treatment to reduce odor and inflammation in wounds secondary to squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity in this patient.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/11844830> Role of health-related quality of life in palliative chemotherapy treatment decisions.  To determine the frequency with which health-related quality-of-life (HRQL) considerations lead to modification or discontinuation of palliative chemotherapy, and the association between physicians' ratings of patients' HRQL and such treatment decisions.Four consecutive medical consultations of 203 patients receiving outpatient palliative chemotherapy were tape-recorded and the content was analyzed to determine the frequency of and reasons for treatment alterations. Physicians rated their patients' HRQL by using the COOP/WONCA health assessment charts. Data on tumor response and treatment toxicity were obtained from the audiotapes and, when necessary, were confirmed by medical chart audits.Treatment was modified in 54 cases (26%) and discontinued in 40 (20%). The primary reasons for modifying treatment were toxicity (n = 22), HRQL considerations (n = 18), and tumor progression (n = 14). The primary reasons for discontinuation of treatment were tumor progression (n = 23), HRQL considerations (n = 6), and toxicity (n = 3). For eight patients, a combination of tumor progression and HRQL issues resulted in discontinuation of treatment. Treatment decisions were associated significantly with physicians' global ratings of patients' HRQL but not with more specific HRQL domains. In the presence of tumor progression or serious toxicity, HRQL considerations played little or no role in treatment decisions. Furthermore, approximately 70% of patients without evidence of tumor progression or toxicity, but with seriously impaired HRQL, continued to receive their treatment as planned.Contrary to previous findings based on physicians' self-report data, HRQL considerations seem to play a relatively minor role in decisions regarding modification or discontinuation of palliative chemotherapy.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/26138283> Quality of life of patients with end-stage peritoneal metastasis treated with Pressurized IntraPeritoneal Aerosol Chemotherapy (PIPAC).  Quality of Life (QoL) plays an important role in patients with peritoneal metastasis and is deteriorating continuously until death. Pressurized Intraperitoneal Aerosol Chemotherapy (PIPAC) is an innovative palliative treatment of peritoneal metastasis. We present the first QoL results under PIPAC therapy.Retrospective analysis of QLQ30 questionnaire results during repeated courses of PIPAC applications in palliative patients with pretreated peritoneal metastasis.91 patients (M:F = 40:51, median age 64 (34-77) years) with 158 PIPAC applications were analyzed. 86% patients had previously received systemic chemotherapy. Peritoneal metastasis was advanced (Peritoneal Carcinomatosis Index I = 16 ± 10). At admission, only moderate impairment of functioning (62-83%) and symptom scores (17-47%) was observed. 48 patients received at least 2 PIPAC every 6 weeks. After PIPAC # 1, the global physical score deteriorated slightly (from 82% to 75%), but improved after PIPAC # 2 (up to 89%). Gastrointestinal symptoms (nausea/vomiting, constipation, diarrhoea, anorexia) remained stable under PIPAC therapy.Quality of life was relatively high in this group of patients with advanced, pretreated peritoneal metastasis, explaining their wish for further therapy. Functioning scores and disease-related symptoms were not altered for at least 3 months in the patients able to receive repeated PIPAC. Except for a transient moderate increase of pain scores, PIPAC did not cause therapy-related QoL deterioration, especially no gastrointestinal symptoms.Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/24616904> The patient with ataxia.  In this article we look at the causes of ataxia, and how the patient presenting with ataxia should be managed. One of the difficulties in managing the patient with ataxia is that acute ataxia has many causes, but usually these can be teased out by means of a careful history and examination. Investigations can then be targeted at confirming or disproving the differential diagnosis. Some patients with ataxia need to be managed in hospital, but many can be investigated, and receive therapy, as an outpatient. 
<doc id=PalliativeCare/92578> Single dose whole pelvis megavoltage irradiation for palliative control of hematuria or ureteral obstruction.  Of 7 patients with bladder carcinoma whose medical condition or disease status prevented an operation 5 had intractable vesical hemorrhage and 2 had progressive azotemia caused by ureteral obstruction. These patients were treated with pelvic irradiation of 1,000 rad single doses. Four patients received 3 doses 3 to 4 weeks apart and 1 patient received 2 doses at a 4-week interval. Prompt cessation of bleeding occurred in all patients and renal function improved in the 2 patients with ureteral obstruction.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/21325982> Palliation and pleurodesis in malignant pleural effusion: the role for tunneled pleural catheters.  Despite increasing use of tunneled pleural catheters (TPCs), their efficacy as a definitive procedure for achieving palliation or spontaneous pleurodesis (SP) in the management of malignant pleural effusion (MPE) remains unclear. In the largest TPC series to date, we evaluate the efficacy for palliation and review the rate and predictors of SP.Retrospective review of 418 TPCs (355 patients) over 2 years (September 2007-September 2009) was performed. Palliation was deemed successful when the patient did not require any other subsequent effusion-directed drainage procedure. SP was defined as satisfying the following criteria: (a) TPC removal without need for further effusion-directed intervention during the patient's lifespan and (b) no evidence of effusion reaccumulation by clinical and radiographic evidence at 1-month postremoval follow-up.After TPC placement, no subsequent effusion-directed procedure was required for 380 of 418 (91%). SP was achieved after only 26% of TPCs (110 of 418), in which the median time to catheter removal was 44 days. Neither demographics nor primary tumor type predicted SP. In patients selected for TPC placement in the operating room, SP occurred in 36% (39 of 107), with 45% in loculated MPE (13 of 29, p = 0.014). Complications occurred after 20 TPCs (4.8%), with none occurring after bedside placement.TPC placement is safe and provides durable palliation, most often obviating the need for subsequent procedures in MPE patients. TPC, however, remains suboptimal at achieving pleurodesis.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/12148971> Inpatient hospice triage of 'after-hours' calls to a community palliative care service.  This article reports on a retrospective study of the provision of 'after-hours' telephone support by a community palliative care service during 1996 and 1997. Calls received outside of normal office hours were triaged through an inpatient hospice unit located in the same building as the community team. During the study period, 629 patient or carer calls were received, predominantly between 5pm and 11 pm. The main reasons cited for using the after-hours service were medication queries, pain, seeking advice from the nurse and anxiety. The triage nurse successfully handled 30% of the calls. The remaining 70% of calls were transferred to the on-call community palliative care nurse, resulting in 251 home visits. Visits were not predicted by call reason, patient living arrangements, diagnosis or clinical problems; the patient being close to death or having died was a predominant reason for visiting. It was found, however, that call outcomes could be partly predicted by the identity of the triage nurse. It is argued that the findings of this study raise important issues related to the provision of after-hours palliative care and the training of staff providing triage of calls from patients and families at home.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/20196711> Palliative care teams in the intensive care unit: a randomised, controlled, feasibility study.  To determine whether palliative care teams can improve patient, family and staff satisfaction for patients receiving end-of-life care in the intensive care unit and reduce surrogate markers of health care costs.Randomised controlled, feasibility study.14-bed general ICU over 29 months in 2006-2008.Patients admitted with a terminal or preterminal condition, for whom the treating intensivist considered that escalating or continuing treatment was unlikely to achieve significant improvement in the patient's clinical condition.A consultation from a palliative care team, in addition to usual ICU end-of-life care.ICU and hospital length of stay, and changes in composite scores of satisfaction obtained from questionnaires administered to families, nursing staff and intensivists.The study was constrained by significant logistical and methodological problems, including low recruitment and questionnaire completion rates, and the lack of an available validated questionnaire. From a total of 2009 admissions over a 29-month period, 20 patients were enrolled, 10 in each group. There were significant differences in baseline characteristics. There were no statistically significant differences between those who had a consultation with the palliative care team and those who did not in median ICU length of stay (3 days v 5 days, P=0.97), median hospital length of stay (5 days v 11 days, P=0.44), or changes in overall composite satisfaction scores reported by families (-6% v -6%, P=0.91), nursing staff (+5% v +15%, P=0.30), and intensivists (-2% v +2%, P=0.42).This feasibility study was difficult to conduct and did not generate any robust conclusions about the utility of involving palliative care teams in end-of-life care in the ICU. Larger studies are technically possible but unlikely to be feasible.Australian Clinical Trials Registry ACTRN012606000110583.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/17472498> Go Wish: a tool for end-of-life care conversations.  The Go Wish card game is an advance care planning tool developed by Coda Alliance to help people have conversations about end-of-life care. Initially, this tool was designed as an easy, entertaining exercise for low-functioning assisted-living facility residents, their family members, and their CNA/nursing assistants (many of whom have limited English language skills.) Use of the tool can be proctored by staff or even a caregiver after minimal instruction. It turns out to be a widely applicable and inexpensive tool to help people discuss end-of-life care. The cards focus the conversations, provide important vocabulary to give voice to patients' needs and concerns, and offer a means for sharing those ideas. The Go Wish tool has developed into professionally designed and printed cards that are boxed as a game set. This paper describes the development of the Go Wish cards and reports on some of the diverse cases in which they have been useful.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/20443383> [Present status and issues of pain palliation in Japan].  In Japan, a pain relief for terminally ill cancer patients has been improved greatly in the past twenty years owing to the appearance of several new opioids and manuals available, loosening the usage of opioids legally, and so on. Medical institutions including clinics which are involved in home palliative care have the knowledge and techniques in certain levels. Sixity-seven percent of such institutions have the ability to carry out the continuous subcutaneous morphine injection. Though very few, certain clinics can do the continuous subarachnoid morphine injection using subcutaneous indwelling port. Considering that home palliative care including pain control required a professional knowledge and techniques, it is necessary to establish a new system in the district which enables to provide the palliative care of high quality by a team in which palliative care clinic or PCC exists as the main medical center.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/22432440> Survival duration among patients with a noncancer diagnosis admitted to a palliative care unit: a retrospective study.  Palliative care unit (PCU) beds are a limited resource in Canada, so PCU admission is restricted to patients with a short prognosis. Anecdotally, PCUs further restrict admission of patients with noncancer diagnoses out of fear that they will oversurvive and reduce bed availability. This raises concerns that noncancer patients have unequal access to PCU resources.To clarify survival duration of patients with a noncancer diagnosis, we conducted a retrospective review of all admissions to four PCUs in Toronto, Canada, over a 1-year period. We measured associations between demographic data, prognosis, Palliative Performance Score (PPS), length of stay (LOS), and waiting time.We collected data for 1000 patients, of whom 21% had noncancer diagnoses. Noncancer patients were older, with shorter prognoses and lower PPS scores on admission. Noncancer patients had shorter LOS (14 versus 24, p<0.001) than cancer patients and a similar likelihood of being discharged alive to cancer patients. Noncancer patients had a trend to lower LOS across a broad range of demographic, diagnostic, prognostic, and PPS categories. Multivariable analysis showed that LOS was not associated with the diagnosis of cancer (p=0.36).Noncancer patients have a shorter LOS than cancer patients and a similar likelihood of being discharged alive from a PCU than cancer patients, and the diagnosis of cancer did not correlate with survival in our study population. Our findings demonstrate that noncancer patients are not oversurviving, and that referring physicians and PCUs should not reject or restrict noncancer referrals out of concern that these patients are having a detrimental impact on PCU bed availability.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/15895546> Reaching common ground: a patient-family-based conceptual framework of quality EOL care.  Improvement in the quality of end-of-life (EOL) care is a priority health care issue since serious deficiencies in quality of care have been reported across care settings. Increasing pressure is now focused on Canadian health care organizations to be accountable for the quality of palliative and EOL care delivered. Numerous domains of quality EOL care upon which to create accountability frameworks are now published, with some derived from the patient/family perspective. There is a need to reach common ground on the domains of quality EOL care valued by patients and families in order to develop consistent performance measures and set priorities for health care improvement. This paper describes a meta-synthesis study to develop a common conceptual framework of quality EOL care integrating attributes of quality valued by patients and their families.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/20940116> [Euthanasia and other decisions at the end of life (Proposal for a more transparent terminology and some thoughts on the legal framework of medical treatment)].  Indication of euthanasia is only one of several medical decisions at the end of life. Precise definition of this topic related to the clinical events happening around the sick-bed is not complete in the legal and medical literature. The present review attempts to classify the different end of life events with the aim of clarifying which of these do not belong to the concept of passive euthanasia. Euthanasia is not a legal category. The everyday expressions of active and passive euthanasia are simplifications, which cover actions of different purposes. Use of these in medical and legal literature can be confusing and misleading. We differentiate decisions at the end of life on basis of their purpose. Based on the definition and category of the Hungarian Doctors' Chamber, euthanasia is the act or the lack of action in order to mercifully shorten or end the life of a suffering fellow-man to help him. Concepts of active, passive and forced euthanasia are defined. The terms of indirect and intermediate euthanasia are not used in order to avoid misunderstanding. Help and participation of non-professionals in the implementation cannot be completely excluded from the concept of euthanasia, and we believe euthanasia is not merely related to doctors. We outline those medical decisions at the end of life which do not belong to the category of passive euthanasia, namely: withdrawal of ineffective and life sustaining treatments, letting go of the patient, contra-indication of therapy escalation, use of palliative therapy, pain-relieving treatment, compromise medicine, consideration of reanimation and choosing cost-effective therapy. We touch upon the subject of the living will, why it cannot be applied, and its relation to active and passive euthanasia. With reference to the legal regulation of life saving and life sustaining treatment, we deal with the expected spirit of medical legislation.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/26139518> Factors associated with clinical failure of self-expandable metal stent for malignant gastroduodenal obstruction.  Endoscopic self-expandable metal stent (SEMS) placement has emerged as an effective palliative treatment for inoperable malignant gastric outlet obstruction (GOO). In spite of successful stent placement, some patients complain of ongoing dysphagia and vomiting. Most reported data on SEMS to date are about technical success of different types of stents and low complication rates. The aim of this study was to evaluate the associated factors of clinical failure after endoscopic SEMS placement for inoperable malignant GOO.A total 122 patients who underwent successful endoscopic SEMS placement for malignant GOO in an academic referral center were included in the analyses. We retrospectively evaluated variables associated with clinical outcomes after successful SEMS placement.The clinical success rate was 81.1%. The common causes of GOO were pancreatic (39%) and gastric cancers (32%). The mean length of the stents (± standard deviation) was 10.06 ± 2.42 cm. Multivariate analysis revealed that gallbladder cancer (p = 0.016, OR 6.486, 95% CI, 1.509-59.655), poor performance status (ECOG ≥ 3) (p = 0.001, OR 10.200, 95% CI, 2.435-42.721), the presence of carcinomatosis peritonei (p < 0.001, OR 35.714, 95% CI, 5.556-250.000) and the failure of endoscope passage (p = 0.039, OR 6.945, 95% CI, 1.101-43.818).Our results suggest that gallbladder cancer, poor performance status (ECOG ≥ 3) and the presence of carcinomatosis peritonei related with clinical failure of palliative SEMS placement.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/9649009> Postoperative chemotherapy may improve prognosis in unresectable gastric cancer.  We have retrospectively evaluated to prognosis of patients with unresectable gastric cancer (UGC) and the effect of postoperative chemotherapy on that prognosis. One hundred patients who died of UGC included 37 patients who received postoperative chemotherapy (chemotherapy group) and 63 patients who did not receive postoperative chemotherapy (control group). Chemotherapy regimens were as follows: intravenous mitomycin (MMC) plus 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) (n=15), oral 5-FU alone (n=10), intravenous methotrexate (MTX) plus 5-FU (n=8), intravenous cisplatin plus 5-FU (n=2), and hepatic arterial infusion of 5-FU plus oral 5-FU (n=2). No prior chemotherapy or radiation therapy was given. All patients' cancers were stage IV. Median survival of the chemotherapy group (238 days) was significantly longer than the control group (137 days). The 1-year survival rate in the treated group was 19.0% but only 2.4% in the control group (p < 0.01). Patients with palliative gastrojejunostomy did not survive significantly longer than those having laparotomy alone or ileal tube insertion. We conclude that the prognosis for patients with UGC remains very poor, but postoperative chemotherapy may contribute to prolonged survival in patients with UGC.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/11406449> Palliative philosophy: the ethical underpinning.  This article explores the ethical underpinnings of palliative care and how contemporary surgical care reinforces much of the basis of palliative medicine. A common misconception is that palliative medicine has grown out of the rise of patient's rights; however, palliative care is grounded in the principle of beneficence that is central to traditional medical values. This article explores the notion of beneficence to understand how contemporary surgical care can be undertaken and how it is consistent with palliative care. Some of the difficulties with the dichotomy between curative and palliative care models in surgical practice are discussed. Finally, this article considers how the underlying philosophy of palliative care is consistent with the historical tradition of surgery and the contemporary goals of surgical care.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/2442823> Patient selection and complications of transhepatic cholangiography.  The most common diagnoses of transhepatic cholangiography (THC) among 58 surgical patients were pancreatic adenocarcinoma, choledocholithiasis and cholangiocarcinoma. THC was complicated in 17 of 58 patients or 18 of 68 attempts due to bacteremia or fever in four, subcapsular hematoma in two and Ring catheter shearing and apical pneumothorax in one each. THC related deaths occurred in four patients. In uncomplicated THC, the mean hematocrit value decreased from 35.9 +/- 5.8 (n = 39) to 34.1 +/- 4.8 (n = 39) (p less than 0.02). Of THC attempts, 8.8 per cent failed; before THC, ultrasonography (UTZ) in most of these showed no dilation of the bile ducts. THC showing dilated ducts had a significantly higher (p less than 0.01) bilirubin and alkaline phosphatase levels (14.8 +/- 8.7 milligrams per cent, n = 46 and 414 +/- 283.9 units, n = 46) compared with the THC showing no dilation (5.29 +/- 5.45 milligrams per cent, n = 13 and 235 +/- 294.1 units, n = 13). Of the 30 patients given ampicillin and gentamicin before THC, only three had bacteremia develop; two of six who were untreated and nine of 47 of those pretreated with other antibiotics had bacteremia develop. Of seven instances of stones of the common bile duct found at operation, computed tomography diagnosed zero of seven; UTZ, two of seven, and THC, seven of seven. No THC gave a misleading diagnosis. Eighteen palliative transhepatic drains were attempted with the THC (15 successfully). A significant (p less than 0.01) 50 per cent decrease in the bilirubin and alkaline phosphatase levels were obtained by catheter drainage but neither test returned to normal. THC is not a benign procedure and should be done only if bilirubin or alkaline phosphatase, or both, are elevated above 5 milligrams per cent and 200 units, respectively, and UTZ shows dilated biliary ducts. Pretreatment with antibiotics and operating room availability are important to limit THC morbidity.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/2473864> The use of simultaneous radiotherapy and 5-flurouracil in patients with inoperable squamous cell lung cancer.  Over a 2-year period, 17 patients with histologically proven squamous cell carcinoma of the bronchus, assessed as inoperable or incurable on surgical or medical grounds, were treated with palliative radiotherapy and a concurrent 120-h infusion of 5-flurouracil, at a dosage of 1 g/day. The treatment was found to be well tolerated with no major toxicity. The degree of palliation and survival obtained was found to be no different to that of a historical matched control group, treated with radiotherapy alone, with median survival in the two groups of 35 weeks and 42 weeks respectively (log rank test P greater than 0.69). We conclude that although a non-toxic treatment regime, no benefit was obtained by the addition of 5-flurouracil to palliative radiotherapy.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/9732212> Strontium-89 chloride in the treatment of bone metastases from breast cancer.  Sixty-four patients with painful metastatic breast cancer in bone were treated with 2 MBq/kg of strontium-89 chloride as a single intravenous injection. Patients were followed with records of medication, hematology parameters, serial bone and Sr-89 bremsstrahlung images and with a point pain score scale (10-0). The response was assessed during a 6-month period of follow-up. Fifty-two of 64 patients (81%) showed at least a moderate improvement. Eighteen out of the 52 responders showed a dramatic decrease in bone pain (35%), 21 (40%) presented a satisfactory response and in 13 cases (25%) the response was moderate. Only 12 patients (19%) from the whole group did not feel any improvement on pain palliation. A statistically significant decrease of pretreatment levels of platelets and leukocyte counts was observed after 4-6 weeks of therapy in 50 (70%) patients. Although most patients showed no change in their bone scans after 3 months of treatment, an obvious improvement was observed in 3 of them. Furthermore no additional painful metastases on their bone scintigraphic images were observed. The selective strontium-89 local uptake in metastatic sites was also confirmed directly by bremsstrahlung scans which were absolutely comparable to the respective 99mTc bone scans. Precautions have been taken against Sr-89 contamination from the patients' blood or excretions.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/15293154> Minimally invasive thoracic surgery for diagnostic assessment and palliative treatment in recurrent neoplastic pleural effusion.  We evaluated the effectiveness of VATS in the diagnosis and palliative treatment of recurrent neoplastic pleural effusions.From 1987 to 2001, we performed 325 VATS chemical pleurodesis for malignant pleural effusions. We used talc in 253 subjects (78 %) and alcohol in 72 (22 %) as the sclerosant agent. In 226 patients (68 %) we performed biopsies because the histology was unknown.Mean operating time was 33.38 +/- 9.77 minutes (median: 32; range: 19 - 58), and the mean duration of chest intubation was 3.78 +/- 1.33 days (median: 4; range 2 - 8). Complications occurred in 2 % of patients. Thirty-day mortality was 2 %. Mean postoperative in hospital stay was 5.53 +/- 1.90 days (median 6; range: 2 - 11). We obtained 264 (81 %) therapeutic successes (no effusion recurrence within 4 months), and 55 relapses of which 32 had talc insufflation (13 % of talc group) and 23 alcohol instillation (32 % of alcohol group).VATS chemical pleurodesis is a safe, useful, versatile procedure for oncological pleural effusion management. The use of talc rather than alcohol significantly increased the therapeutic success rate. VATS should be considered the treatment of choice in patients with advanced neoplasm to obtain good palliation and a better quality of life.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/15588355> Physicians' perceptions of procedural pain and discomfort.  Previous studies have demonstrated that patients with end-stage dementia receive a high rate of painful and uncomfortable procedures. This study was undertaken to determine whether this finding might be related to physicians' misperceptions about the burden of common hospital experiences and procedures.Physicians were administered a survey asking them to rank on a five-point scale the pain and discomfort they perceived to be associated with 16 common hospital procedures. These ratings were compared to those previously obtained using the same instrument with cognitively intact patients who had actually undergone these procedures.One hundred twenty-three of 123 resident physicians (100%) and 40 of 50 attending physicians (80%) to whom the questionnaire was administered responded. Overall, physicians more often rated both pain and discomfort associated with these procedures/experiences higher than did patients, and residents typically rated pain and discomfort higher than attending physicians. Resident physicians rated 7 procedures/experiences as significantly more painful and 13 as more uncomfortable than did patients. Attending physicians rated 5 procedures/experiences as significantly more painful and 8 more uncomfortable than did patients. Having a nasogastric tube inserted was the only procedure rated more painful by patients as compared to resident or attending physicians.Physicians have an accurate perception of pain and discomfort associated with common hospital procedures. Further investigation should scrutinize in greater detail the ubiquity and depth of physician knowledge about the issue of procedural burden and should focus on methods and interventions that would allow physicians to consciously weigh the benefits and burdens of routine interventions in the care of persons with serious and life-threatening illness.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/21914914> [End-of-life care and end-of-life medical decisions: the ITAELD study].  To describe the attitudes towards end of life care and the practice of end-of-life medical decisions with possible life-shortening effect among Italian physicians.Cross sectional study (last death among the assisted patients in the last 12 months was considered).In the year 2007, 5,710 GPs and 8,950 hospital physicians were invited all over Italy to participate in the ITAELDstudy through anonymous mail questionnaire.Proportion of agreement with statements on end-of-life care issues. Proportion of deaths with an end-of-life medical decision.The response rate was 19.2%. The 65% of respondents agreed with the duty to respect any non-treatment request of the competent patient, the 55% agreed with the same duty in case of advanced directives, the 39% in case of proxy's request. The 53% of respondents agreed with the ethical acceptability of active euthanasia in selected cases. Among 1,850 deaths the 57.7% did not receive any end-of-life medical decision. For a further 21.0% no decision was possible, being sudden and unexpected deaths. In the remaining 21.3% at least one end-of-life medical decision was reported: 0.8% was classified as physician assisted death, 20.5% as non-treatment decision. Among all deceased the 19.6% were reported to have been deeply sedated. Being favourable to the use of opioids in terminal patients was associated to non-treatment decisions with possible but non-intentional life shortening effect; agreeing with the duty to fully respect any actual non-treatment request of the competent patient was associated to end-of life medical decisions with intentional life-shortening effect (adjusted OR>10 in both cases).The life stance and ethical beliefs of physicians determine their behaviour at the end of life wherever specific statements of law are lacking. Therefore education and debate are needed on these issues.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/2481671> The use of chemotherapy in metastatic breast cancer.  Recurrent breast cancer is incurable. Chemotherapeutic agents will be used in most patients with metastatic disease at some time during their course. There is little evidence that such agents prolong survival, and their toxicities are not inconsiderable. The focus of treatment should be on the palliation of symptoms. Single-agent regimens should not be assumed to be less effective than combinations, particularly as salvage therapies. Some new approaches to the management of metastatic disease are explored.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/26632700> Delayed Intracerebral Hemorrhage Secondary to Ventriculoperitoneal Shunt: A Case Report and Literature Review.  The ventriculoperitoneal (VP) shunt is a routine procedure for cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) diversion, and is associated with many complications. A delayed hemorrhage after the VP shunt surgery, however, is quite rare. In this study, we report a case involving late-onset hemorrhage. The 67-year-old male patient with a history of head trauma and brain surgery underwent a VP shunt placement for hydrocephalus. The surgery course was uneventful and no bleeding was revealed in the first computed tomographic (CT) scan after the procedure. However, a massive intraparenchymal and intraventricular hemorrhage occurred 8 h following adjustment of the valve system on the 8th day after surgery.Erosion of the vasculature by catheter cannulation and a sudden reduction of CSF pressure after downregulation of the valve could be one of the possible causes of the intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH).
<doc id=PalliativeCare/11223313> The use of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) in patients with advanced HIV infection: impact on medical, palliative care, and quality of life outcomes.  The effect of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) in the treatment of HIV infection is usually measured by survival, CD4 lymphocyte counts, HIV-1 RNA viral load testing, and the occurrence of opportunistic infections. This pilot study sought to measure the impact of HAART treatments on a wide range of clinical outcomes and psychological variables in a sample of patients with advanced HIV infection. Seventy patients with advanced AIDS who were protease inhibitor naïve were started on HAART regimens. Patients were admitted to an AIDS inpatient unit of a long-term care facility that provides treatment and palliative care. All patients were diagnosed with AIDS, had CD4 cell counts below 300/cc(3), and had a projected survival of greater than one month. Patients were started on triple-drug HAART regimens with daily medical supervision and observation. In addition to standard clinical and laboratory markers, a series of observer-rated and self-report instruments were used to measure various physical and psychological factors (e.g., pain and symptom distress, psychological well-being, depression). Data were collected at baseline and after 1 and 3 months of HAART therapy. As expected, the CD4 count increased and viral load levels decreased significantly over the 3-month study period. In addition, patients improved significantly in body weight, and serum albumin and ferritin levels. The only psychosocial measure that improved significantly with treatment was depression. Ratings of pain intensity, physical and psychological symptom distress, and overall quality of life did not change. Of the 70 patients studied, 84.3% were still alive after the 3-month study period. Of these, 6 (8.6%) were discharged to community. However, 17 surviving patients (24.3%) had HAART regimens discontinued due to drug intolerance and 11 patients (15.7%) expired during the study period. While these data are preliminary, HAART regimens appear to have positive effects on CD4 count, HIV viral load, and several other measures of physical well-being in patients with advanced AIDS. Despite these improvements, the benefits of treatment on pain and symptom distress, and psychological well-being were less clear. In addition, treatment failure (mortality and intolerance) were not uncommon in this sample (40%). Further research is clearly necessary to better understand the benefits of HAART therapy in patients with advanced HIV infection.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/7540503> Internal mammary artery embolization for hepatic tumors.  To prospectively identify patients with collateral internal mammary artery (IMA) supply to hepatic tumors, and to embolize the IMA as part of palliative hepatic artery embolization (HAE).Over a 4-year period, 222 patients were enrolled in an HAE protocol for inoperable liver tumors. All underwent abdominal computed tomography (CT) prior to preembolization diagnostic hepatic arteriography. When anterior subcapsular hepatic tumor was seen on the CT scan, patients underwent IMA arteriography as well. All arteries supplying tumor were embolized.Six patients had anterior subcapsular lesions identified on CT. IMA catheterization revealed that these lesions drew blood supply directly or indirectly from one or both IMAs in all six patients. All IMAs were embolized.When an hepatic tumor is identified in an anterior subcapsular location prior to HAE, the IMA should be examined and, if significant tumor supply is demonstrated, these branches should be embolized.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/25324263> Hybrid stage I palliation in a 1.1 kg, 28-week preterm neonate with posterior malalignment ventricular septal defect, left ventricular outflow tract obstruction, and coarctation of the aorta.  The hybrid stage I procedure has emerged as a less-invasive alternative to the standard surgical Norwood procedure in the palliation of high-risk hypoplastic left heart syndrome and variants. This approach may also benefit patients requiring complex neonatal repair who have significant anatomic and/or perioperative risk factors that either prevent or complicate durable and robust biventricular circulation from being safely achieved. An extremely low-birth weight (1.1 kg) 28-week gestation preterm neonate with postnatal diagnosis of posterior malalignment ventricular septal defect, severe left ventricular outflow tract obstruction, aortic annular hypoplasia, and aortic arch obstruction underwent initial palliation with a hybrid stage I procedure. In this case, hybrid stage I palliation allowed for both somatic and left heart growth followed by ultimate uncomplicated biventricular repair. © The Author(s) 2014.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/17555480> Withholding and withdrawal from dialysis: what we know about how our patients die.  Withholding and withdrawal of dialysis has been a reality since dialysis was invented. Only in the past 20 years has it been formally studied, and we still have a great deal to learn. The nephrology community has slowly come to accept that, for some of our patients, not having dialysis is a better option than continuing or initiating therapy. The principles of palliative care throughout the disease trajectory and hospice care at end of life are germane to this population due to its high symptom burden and mortality rate. We review what is currently known concerning patients who choose to withhold or withdraw from dialysis, and the current barriers (and solutions) to providing them with optimal palliative care.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/14575056> Ventilator withdrawal: procedures and outcomes. Report of a collaboration between a critical care division and a palliative care service.  To describe an institutional procedure for ventilator withdrawal and to analyze patient responses to terminal extubation, the medical records of 21 patients who underwent withdrawal of mechanical ventilation according to the process followed by an interdisciplinary palliative care team were retrospectively reviewed. The cohort was a convenience sample of sequentially treated patients in a 1048-bed urban university-affiliated medical center. Sixteen of the 21 patients were on medical or surgical floors and five patients were in critical care units. Patients were assessed for discomfort, such as dyspnea, agitation, or anxiety. Sedative and analgesic medications were administered based on clinical parameters. Palliative care clinician observations of patient reports, tachypnea,use of accessory muscles, and signs of discomfort such as agitation or anxiety were recorded for the first 4 hours after extubation. Medication use and length of survival were recorded. Fifty-seven percent were symptomatic during the extubation process and required administration of either a benzodiazepine or opioid medication. The median survival of the 18 patients who died post-extubation was 0.83 hours (interquartile range 0.5-43.8). Bolus doses of opioid or benzodiazepine medications were effective for management of symptoms in about two-thirds of patients. One-third of patients required continuous infusions. Eighteen patients died following extubation in the medical center, and three of these patients were transferred to an inpatient hospice unit. Three patients (14%) survived to discharge from the hospital. The procedure followed provides a foundation for collaboration between palliative care and critical care services to ensure continuity of care across clinical settings/units.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/24393144> The Australia and New Zealand Fontan Registry: description and initial results from the first population-based Fontan registry.  The Fontan procedure is the final in a series of staged palliations for single-ventricle congenital heart disease, which encompasses rare and heterogeneous cardiac lesions. It represents an unusual and novel physiological state characterised by absence of a subpulmonary ventricle.The population is growing steadily, prompting creation of this registry to study their epidemiology, demographic trends, treatment and outcomes.This multicentre, binational, prospective and retrospective, web-based registry involving all congenital cardiac centres in the region has identified nearly all Fontan patients in Australia and New Zealand. Patients identified retrospectively were approached for recruitment. New recipients are automatically enrolled prospectively unless they choose to opt-out. Follow-up data are collected yearly.Baseline data were obtained in 1072 patients as at 1 January 2011. Ninety-nine patients died; 64 were lost to follow up. Forty-four per cent of patients lost were between 20 and 30 years of age. The size of the Fontan population is increasing steadily. Among 973 living patients, 541 (56%) gave consent for prospective collection of follow up. Between 1 January 2011 and 1 January 2013, an additional 47 subjects were enrolled prospectively. The current proportion of patients operated with hypoplastic left heart syndrome is currently 29% and is growing rapidly.The population surviving after the Fontan procedure has been growing in recent decades, especially since survival with hypoplastic left heart syndrome has improved. The Australia and New Zealand Fontan Registry provides population-based data, and only large databases like this will give opportunities for understanding the population and performing prospective trials.© 2013 The Authors; Internal Medicine Journal © 2013 Royal Australasian College of Physicians.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/17225973> Colorectal stenting: an effective therapy for preoperative and palliative treatment.  To demonstrate the effectiveness of preoperative and palliative colorectal stent placement in acute colonic obstruction.Sixty-seven consecutive patients (mean age 67.3 years, range 25-93 years) with clinical and radiological signs of colonic obstruction were treated: 45 (67%) preoperatively and 22 (33%) with a palliative intent. In 59 patients (88%) the obstruction was malignant, while in 8 (12%) it was benign. A total of 73 enteric Wallstents were implanted under combined fluoroscopic/endoscopic guidance.Forty-five patients were treated preoperatively with a technical success rate of 84%, a clinical success rate of 83%, and a complication rate of 16%. Of the 38 patients who were successfully stented preoperatively, 36 (95%) underwent surgery 2-22 days (mean 7.2 days) after stent insertion. The improved general condition and adequate bowel cleansing allowed single-stage tumor resection and primary end-to-end anastomosis without complications in 31 cases (86% of all operations), while only 5 patients had colostomies. Stent placement was used as the final palliative treatment in 22 patients. The technical success rate was 95%, the clinical success rate 72%, and the complication rate relatively high at 67%, caused by reocclusion in most cases. After noninvasive secondary interventions (e.g., tube placement, second stenting, balloon dilatation) the secondary patency of stents was 71% and mean reported survival time after stent insertion was 92 days (range 10-285 days).Preoperative stent placement in acute colonic obstruction is minimally invasive and allows an elective one-stage surgery in most cases. Stent placement also proved a valuable alternative to avoid colostomy in palliation.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/11521392> [Management of breast cancer in Madagascar].  Retrospective analysis of management and outcome of breast cancer in Madagascar.From January 1996 to December 1998, 259 women with breast cancer were seen in the only department of oncology of the island, located in Antananarivo. It is equipped with a cobalt unit (unavailable in 1996). There was no uniform policy on surgery. Chemotherapy and hormonotherapy were not available for all patients. Reduced equipment enabled a minimal pre-therapeutic workshop.Mean age was 48.5 years. One hundred and fifty-six women were premenopausal. The majority (69%) lived less than 50 km from the department. Tumours were at an advanced stage in 67% of the cases; the mean delay for diagnosis was 9.4 months. Treatments were done with curative intent in 118 cases and with palliative intent in 64 cases. Partial surgery (89) was adequate in 40.5% of the cases; total mastectomy concerned 94 women. Axillary lymph node dissection was done in 94 cases and was positive in 76 cases. The number of involved nodes was noticed in 47 cases. Curative radiotherapy concerned 106 patients, 41 after total mastectomy and 44 after lumpectomy, and was exclusive in 21 cases. Palliative irradiation was done locally with hypofractionation for 35 patients. Chemotherapy was performed in 86 women. The 4-year survival of the 136 assessable patients was 73%.Improvement in breast cancer treatment outcome in Madagascar is the result of earlier diagnosis of the disease. Information and education of the population together with caregivers are necessary, because updating and improving technical equipment is not currently possible due to the economic problems that the country has to face.
<doc id=PalliativeCare/12610861> New report card compares end-of-life care initiatives across the country.  A report card from Last Acts and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation takes a first look on a state-by-state basis at how end-of-life care and related issues are approached by healthcare organizations across the country.
<doc id=QA/19093424> Cultivating trust: the board-medical staff relationship.  To achieve better quality and safety outcomes, boards and their medical staffs must overcome a relationship often fraught with tension and distrust in order to forge a new partnership.
<doc id=QA/9745940> Multilevel adaptive process control of acquisition and post-processing of computed radiographic images in picture archiving and communication system environment.  Computed radiography (CR) has become a widely used imaging modality replacing the conventional screen/film procedure in diagnostic radiology. After a latent image is captured in a CR imaging plate, there are seven key processes required before a CR image can be reliably archived and displayed in a picture archiving and communication system (PACS) environment. Human error, computational bottlenecks, software bugs, and CR system errors often crash the CR acquisition and post-processing computers which results in a delay of transmitting CR images for proper viewing at the workstation. In this paper, we present a control theory and a fault tolerance algorithm, as well as their implementation in the PACS environment to circumvent such problems. The software implementation of the control theory and the algorithm is based on the event-driven, multilevel adaptive processing structure. The automated software has been used to provide real-time monitoring and control of CR image acquisition and post-processing in the intensive care unit module of the PACS operation at the University of California, San Francisco. Results demonstrate that the multilevel adaptive process control structure improves CR post-processing time, increases the reliability of the CR images delivery, minimizes user intervention, and speeds up the previously time-consuming quality assurance procedure.
<doc id=QA/22472714> Every child to thrive, belong and achieve? Time to reflect and act in New Zealand.  New Zealand continues to grapple with poor and inequitable child health and wellbeing outcomes. The associated high economic costs, the long-term impact on adult health and New Zealand's international children's rights obligations provide further grounds for action. Although there have been many different reports offering solutions and some key areas of progress, gains have been limited and there has not been sufficient clarity and agreement on wider actions. The environment is complex and solutions cross agency and disciplinary boundaries. This paper reviews the current situation and proposes a set of actions to improve child health and equity. These include a group of recommendations on high-level leadership and coordination, actions to address social conditions, and a range of specific health and wellbeing actions. Progress will require the will, commitment and courage of many to acknowledge the issues and find a way forward.  Preventing suffering and ensuring the wellbeing of our youngest citizens during their formative years is an ethical issue for our nation, an issue of what we value as a society, and the best investment for a highly productive, innovative and resilient nation for the future.
<doc id=QA/20438607> Room for improvement? Leadership, innovation culture and uptake of quality improvement methods in general practice.  Leadership and innovation are currently seen as essential elements for the development and maintenance of high-quality care. Little is known about the relationship between leadership and culture of innovation and the extent to which quality improvement methods are used in general practice. This study aimed to assess the relationship between leadership behaviour, culture of innovation and adoption of quality improvement methods in general practice.Self-administered postal questionnaires were sent to general practitioner quality improvement leads in one county in the UK between June and December 2007. The questionnaire consisted of background information, a 12-item scale to assess leadership behaviour, a seven-dimension self-rating scale for culture of innovation and questions on current use of quality improvement tools and techniques.Sixty-three completed questionnaires (62%) were returned. Leadership behaviours were not commonly reported. Most practices reported a positive culture of innovation, featuring relationship most strongly, followed by targets and information but rated lower on other dimensions of rewards, risk and resources. There was a significant positive correlation between leadership behaviour and the culture of innovation (r = 0.57; P < 0.001). Apart from clinical audit and significant event analysis, quality improvement methods were not adopted by most participating practices.Leadership behaviours were infrequently reported and this was associated with a limited culture of innovation in participating general practices. There was little use of quality improvement methods beyond clinical and significant event audit. Practices need support to enhance leadership skills, encourage innovation and develop quality improvement skills if improvements in health care are to accelerate.© 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
<doc id=QA/25779469> Industry ties in otolaryngology: initial insights from the physician payment sunshine act.  To characterize nonresearch payments made by industry to otolaryngologists in order to explore how the potential for conflicts of interests varies among otolaryngologists and compares between otolaryngologists and other surgical specialists.Retrospective cross-sectional database analysis.Open Payments program database recently released by Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.Surgeons nationwide who were identified as receiving nonresearch payment from industry in accordance with the Physician Payment Sunshine Act.The proportion of otolaryngologists receiving payment, the mean payment per otolaryngologist, and the standard deviation thereof were determined using the Open Payments database and compared to other surgical specialties. Otolaryngologists were further compared by specialization, census region, sponsor, and payment amount.Less than half of otolaryngologists (48.1%) were reported as receiving payments over the study period, the second smallest proportion among surgical specialties. Otolaryngologists received the lowest mean payment per compensated individual ($573) compared to other surgical specialties. Although otolaryngology had the smallest variance in payment among surgical specialties (SD, $2806), the distribution was skewed by top earners; the top 10% of earners accounted for 87% ($2,199,254) of all payment to otolaryngologists. Otolaryngologists in the West census region were less likely to receive payments (38.6%, P < .001).Over the study period, otolaryngologists appeared to have more limited financial ties with industry compared to other surgeons, though variation exists within otolaryngology. Further refinement of the Open Payments database is needed to explore differences between otolaryngologists and leverage payment information as a tool for self-regulation.© American Academy of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery Foundation 2015.
<doc id=QA/27495373> Development and Pilot Testing of Caregiver-Reported Pediatric Quality Measures for Transitions Between Sites of Care.  Few measures exist to assess pediatric transition quality between care settings. The study objective was to develop and pilot test caregiver-reported quality measures for pediatric hospital and emergency department (ED) to home transitions.On the basis of an evidence review, we developed draft caregiver-reported quality measures for transitions between sites of care. Using the RAND-UCLA Modified Delphi method, a multistakeholder panel endorsed measures for further development. Measures were operationalized into 2 surveys, which were administered to caregivers of patients (n = 2839) discharged from Seattle Children's Hospital between July 1 and September 1, 2014. Caregivers were randomized to mail or telephone survey mode. Measure scores were computed as a percentage of eligible caregivers who endorsed receiving the indicated care. Differences in scores were examined according to survey mode and caregiver characteristics.The Delphi panel endorsed 6 of 8 hospital to home transition measures and 2 of 3 ED to home transitions measures. Scores differed significantly according to mode for 1 measure. Caregivers with lower levels of educational attainment and/or Spanish-speaking caregivers reported significantly higher scores on 3 of the measures. The largest difference was reported for the measure that assessed whether caregivers received assistance with scheduling follow-up appointments; 92% score for caregivers with lower educational attainment versus 79% for caregivers with higher educational attainment (P < .001).We developed 8 new, evidence-based quality measures to assess transition quality from the perspective of caregivers. Pilot testing of these measures in a single institution yielded valuable insights for future testing and implementation of these measures.Copyright © 2016 Academic Pediatric Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
<doc id=QA/12426846> [Structural quality of acute internal medicine rheumatology clinics--Project Group of the Association of Rheumatologic Acute Clinics].  A study group representing the VRA (Association of Rheumatology Clinics in Germany) has worked out the structural quality paper presented here. Five guidelines for structural quality have been established by the VRA and are laid out in this paper. Required space and personnel for implementing these guidelines are considered. A highly competent, multi-disciplinary team must be available to ensure the long-term quality of in-patient treatment of rheumatic patients, the majority of whom are chronically ill and are suffering from chronic pain of varying intensity which restricts their daily activities. The necessity for such in-patient treatment is reflected in a 6-point-questionnaire (draft) adapted to the Appropriateness Evaluation Protocol. Considering the introduction of a flat-rate fee system (DRG-system) the structural quality paper describes the implementation of a specified electronic data processing documentation which is linked to a central hospital information system. According to the concept of benchmarking, the paper takes into account future developments of the German health system. It will be adjusted continuously to changing political guidelines for health services.
<doc id=QA/19754862> A method for improving arrival-to-electrocardiogram time in emergency department chest pain patients and the effect on door-to-balloon time for ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.  The objectives were to determine if an emergency department (ED) could improve the adherence to a door-to-electrocardiogram (ECG) time goal of 10 minutes or less for patients who presented to an ED with chest pain and the effect of this adherence on door-to-balloon (DTB) time for ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) cardiac catheterization (cath) alert patients.This was a planned 1-month before-and-after interventional study design for implementing a new process for obtaining ECGs in patients presenting to the study ED with chest pain. Prior to the change, patients were registered and triaged before an ECG was obtained. The new procedure required registration clerks to identify those with chest pain and directly overhead page or call a designated ECG technician. This technician had other ED duties, but prioritized performing ECGs and delivering them to attending physicians. A full registration process occurred after the clinical staff performed their initial assessment. The primary outcome was the total percentage of patients with chest pain who received an ECG within 10 minutes of ED arrival. The secondary outcome was DTB time for patients with STEMI who were emergently cath alerted. Data were analyzed using mean differences, 95% confidence intervals (CIs), and relative risk (RR) regression to adjust for possible confounders.A total of 719 patients were studied: 313 before and 405 after the intervention. The mean (+/-standard deviation [SD]) age was 50 (+/-16) years, 54% were women, 57% were African American, and 36% were white. Patients walked in 89% of the time; 11% arrived by ambulance. Thirty-nine percent were triaged as emergent and 61% as nonemergent. Patients presented during daytime 68% of the time, and 32% presented during the night. Before the intervention, 16% received an ECG at 10 minutes or less. After the intervention, 64% met the time requirement, for a mean difference of 47.3% (95% CI = 40.8% to 53.3%, p < 0.0001). Results were not affected by age, sex, race, mode of arrival, triage classification, or time of arrival. For patients with STEMI cath alerts, four were seen before and seven after the intervention. No patients before the intervention had ECG time within 10 minutes, and one of four had DTB time of <90 minutes. After the intervention, all seven patients had ECG time within 10 minutes; the three arriving during weekday hours when the cath team was on site had DTB times of <90 minutes, but the four arriving at night and on weekends when the cath team was off site had DTB times of >90 minutes.The overall percentage of patients with a door-to-ECG time within 10 minutes improved without increasing staffing. An ECG was performed within 10 minutes of arrival for all patients who were STEMI cath alerted, but DTB time under 90 minutes was achieved only when the cath team was on site.
<doc id=QA/15901419> Strategies for multi-hospital networks: a framework.  The last two decades have seen the significant emergence of multi-hospital networks (MHNs) in the health sectors of all industrialized countries. Such networks seem to represent an organizational choice, which provides interesting opportunities to cope with cost and quality issues stressing the health field. This work proposes and discusses a framework for strategies that can be implemented by MHNs to achieve projected benefits. The estimated advantages are then weighed against unexpected or underrated drawbacks and empirical evidence. The conclusions point out MHNs as viable future alternatives for freestanding hospitals looking to improve their efficiency and financial stability, on condition that a 'proper management' of their consolidation processes is carried out. This requires extensive pre-deal analysis to critically assess what benefits could be achieved through the network's formation, as well as post-deal perseverance in implementing consolidation strategies to their full. In this perspective, specific advices apt to minimize the risk of creating MHNs in the wake of a management fashion instead of through sound rational assessments are also discussed.
<doc id=QA/24460346> Qualitative assessment of breast cancer early detection services provided through well woman clinics in the district of Gampaha in Sri Lanka.  Breast cancer is the most common cancer diagnosed among women in Sri Lanka. Early detection can lead to reduction in morbidity and mortality. The objective here was to identify perceptions of public health midwives (PHMs) on the importance of early detection of breast cancer and deficiencies of and suggestions on improving existing breast cancer early detection services provided through Well Woman Clinics.A qualitative study using four focus group discussions (FGDs) were conducted among 38 PHMs in the Gampaha district in Sri Lanka and the meetings were audio-recorded, transcribed and analyzed using constant comparison and identifying themes and categories.All the PHMs had a firm realization on the need of breast cancer early detection. The four FGDs among PHMs revealed non-availability of guidelines, inadequacy of training, lack of skills and material to provide health education, inability to provide privacy during clinical examination, shortage of stationery, lack of community awareness and motivation. The suggestions for the improvements of the programme identified in FGDs were capacity building of PHMs, making availability of guidelines, rescheduling clinics, improving the supervision, strengthening the monitoring, improving coordination between clinical and preventive sectors, and improving community awareness.Results of the FGDs can provide useful information on components to be improved in breast cancer early detection services. Study recommendations were training programmes at basic and post basic levels on a regular basis and supervision for the sustainance of the breast cancer early detection program.
<doc id=QA/10120426> Continuous quality improvement: an analysis of the new paradigm in healthcare.  Evaluating the quality of medical care is a documented activity extending as far back as 1910, when William Flexner, MD, examined the nation's medical schools. Standards promulgated by the federal government and by voluntary accreditation agencies have been primarily responsible for driving the development and widespread use of monitoring activities over the past 20 years. A new wind is blowing, however. Momentum is increasing to incorporate the principles of industrial quality improvement into the healthcare arena. In this study, Michelle Harvey poses the following questions: Have hospitals made the transition from traditional quality assurance to continuous quality improvement? Is an individual hospital's transition affected by such variables as bed size, region, profit or nonprofit status, and system affiliation? This analysis suggests that opportunities to facilitate transition to the new paradigm abound.
<doc id=QA/18487756> Managing care pathways combining SNOMED CT, archetypes and an electronic guideline system.  Today electronic clinical guideline systems exist, but they are not well integrated with electronic health records. This paper thus proposes that the patient's position in the pathway during the patient journey should be made visible to all involved healthcare parties and the patient. This requires that the generic knowledge, which is represented in the guidelines, is combined with the patient specific information - and then made accessible for all relevant parties. In addition to the decision support provided by the guideline system documentation support can be provided by templates based on archetypes. This paper provides a proposal for how the guideline system and the EHR can be integrated by the use of archetypes and SNOMED CT. SNOMED CT provides the common reference terminology and the semantic links between the systems. The proposal also includes the use of a National Patient Index for storing data about the patient's position in the pathway and for sharing this information by all involved parties.
<doc id=QA/10119504> Information systems help knowledge workers work even harder at productivity.  Information systems are here to stay, but their full benefits continue to elude healthcare users. Multimillion dollar systems--for all of their promise--tend to create more work. Some even require significant additional staffing to maintain them. How can healthcare knowledge workers measure and increase their productivity?
<doc id=QA/18709995> [Allowable limits of analytical error which can guarantee the reliability of reference intervals for interpretation of clinical laboratory data].  The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) developed a guide to the expression of uncertainty in measurement (GUM). The purpose of such guidance is to provide a basis for the international comparison of measurement results. In this study, we propose a basic protocol to evaluate and express uncertainty in measurement for routine test results in the clinical laboratory. We also sought to investigate the effects of measurement errors on the evaluation of biological variations in healthy subjects. To this end, we analyzed the allowable limits of analytical error which guarantee the reliability of reference intervals for the interpretation of clinical laboratory data. As a conclusion, we suggest that 1/2 or less of biological intraindividual variations is an appropriate criterion for an allowable limit of uncertainty to be applied in health check-ups, and this value is in agreement with previous reports. If this criterion as a marker for intra laboratory imprecision is met, it suggests that a given institute is able to evaluate time series changes in follow-up of individual data. If the reference interval of laboratory data for disease screening is shared by different institutes, it is suggested that a criterion of 1/4 or less of a biological inter- pulse intra-individual variation is appropriate. This criterion appears to be the goal for analytical inter-laboratory variations.
<doc id=QA/27032171> Ensure that services observation patients receive are necessary and timely.  CMS changed the payment methodology for observation services to a flat rate that covers most major services patients receive during the observation period. Hospitals can no longer bill for individual services such as injections, infusions, MRIs, and other services, but will receive a flat fee for the entire stay, which in some cases may not cover the observation stay. Case managers should monitor observation patients closely and ensure that the services they receive are necessary for the physician to make a decision on whether to admit or discharge the patient. Collect data on avoidable delays in observation that are due to inappropriate tests and procedures and how the cost of the procedures affect the hospital's bottom line.
<doc id=QA/1622348> The application of continuous quality improvement tools in reducing the length of stay for hip replacement patients: a base hospital's experience.  The quality assurance (QA) initiative has been slow to show results. Quality assurance tools have been underdeveloped, and quality by inspection unacceptable to clinicians. A base hospital's experience with continuous quality improvement (CQI) as a means to more effective quality assurance is described. Discharge data grouped into diagnosis related groups (DRG) and analysed for inter-hospital comparison provided reliable statistical data with which to monitor the hospital's performance. The CQI tools were used to analyse the nature of the problem, and correct the deficiency. The new methodology would seem to indicate greater promise for successful quality assurance programmes in the future.
<doc id=QA/10718018> The Medicare prescription drug benefit: how will the game be played?  Most recent proposals to add a prescription drug benefit to the Medicare program suggest using pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs) to control costs and promote quality. However, the proposals give little detail on the institutional arrangements that would govern PBM operations and drug procurement. The recent Congressional Budget Office cost estimate of the Clinton administration's proposal reflects this lack of detail on how PBMs would function. We sketch an approach for structuring PBM operations that focuses on competition among PBMs, manufacturers, and distributors; incentive pricing; and risk sharing with PBMs.
<doc id=QA/19774951> Wasted hospital days impair the value of length-of-stay variables in the quality assessment of trauma care.  Hospital length of stay (LOS) is frequently used to evaluate the quality of trauma care but LOS may be impacted by nonmedical factors as well. We reviewed our experience with delays in patient discharge to determine its financial consequences and its impact on LOS. We performed an analysis of linked trauma registry and delayed discharge databases. Actual LOS (A-LOS) values were compared with calculated ideal LOS (I-LOS) values, and the per cent increase in LOS was calculated. Linear regression analysis was used to identify significant predictors of prolonged LOS. One thousand, five hundred and seventeen patients were studied, with an A-LOS of 6.54 days. Seven per cent of patients experienced discharge delays, resulting in 580 excess hospital days. Calculated I-LOS was 6.15 days, 6.34 per cent lower than A-LOS. Other I-LOS estimates were as much as 25 per cent lower than A-LOS. Estimated excess patient charges associated with delayed discharges were $4,000,000 to $15,000,000. Discharge delays are an infrequent, although costly, occurrence that has a significant impact on LOS. LOS therefore may not be an appropriate metric for assessing the quality of trauma care, and should only be used if it has been corrected for discharge delays. Concerted efforts should be directed towards identifying and correcting the factors responsible for delayed discharge in trauma patients.
<doc id=QA/12164616> Teaching the quality improvement process to junior medical students: the Nebraska experience.  To teach the continuous quality improvement (CQI) process to junior medical students at the University of Nebraska during their rural family medicine preceptorship, we designed and implemented a population health project in 1998. This project requires students to select a problem affecting a population in their preceptor's practice, analyze that problem, and suggest a solution or remediation using CQI principles. Support for the students during their project includes Web-based examples and readings. Results of this project have included national presentations and changes in several preceptors' practice patterns. This project has been well accepted by preceptors and students.
<doc id=QA/23240737> Human Capital Questionnaire: Assessment of European nurses' perceptions as indicators of human capital quality.  Healthcare accreditation models generally include indicators related to healthcare employees' perceptions (e.g. satisfaction, career development, and health safety). During the accreditation process, organizations are asked to demonstrate the methods with which assessments are made. However, none of the models provide standardized systems for the assessment of employees. In this study, we analyzed the psychometric properties of an instrument for the assessment of nurses' perceptions as indicators of human capital quality in healthcare organizations. The Human Capital Questionnaire was applied to a sample of 902 nurses in four European countries (Spain, Portugal, Poland, and the UK). Exploratory factor analysis identified six factors: satisfaction with leadership, identification and commitment, satisfaction with participation, staff well-being, career development opportunities, and motivation. The results showed the validity and reliability of the questionnaire, which when applied to healthcare organizations, provide a better understanding of nurses' perceptions, and is a parsimonious instrument for assessment and organizational accreditation. From a practical point of view, improving the quality of human capital, by analyzing nurses and other healthcare employees' perceptions, is related to workforce empowerment. © 2012 Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.
<doc id=QA/11743501> Sequential analysis for quality control in the neonatal intensive care unit.  This article describes a novel application of a statistical technique for continuous quality assurance in the NICU.We used prospective analysis of rates of survival to 28 days of life, without major IVH in ELBW infants in a single tertiary NICU, before and after the introduction of an evidence-based treatment protocol. By using the CUSUM function, each infant's results were sequentially plotted, and significant changes in outcomes were noted when the plot crossed predetermined boundary lines.Significant changes in outcomes were evident with this method sooner than traditional analyses on the basis of year-end or other arbitrary intervals. The introduction of the ELBW protocol was temporally associated with significant improvement in intact short-term survival.Sequential analysis techniques are useful tools for ongoing quality assurance; deviations in outcomes may be detected more quickly, which should assist in the identification of improvements or decrements in performance of the NICU.
<doc id=QA/12170671> Intravenous care: the benefits of closed-system connectors.  Following a review of venous access care, a needleless closed-system connector was introduced to Plymouth Hospitals NHS Trust. A cannulation audit and a survey of central catheter care found a wide diversity of practice. The objective was to write a procedure for central line care that could be used by most clinical departments and that could be employed to improve the standard of cannula care. A trust-wide review found that staff appeared unconcerned about the care of cannulae and rarely documented their practice. In addition, general wards had a misguided idea of what central line care involved as a result of their infrequent exposure to them and the inconsistent information given to them by specialist wards. To help unify practice and simplify information a different approach was required. This led to a 12-month, nurse-led project to develop a tender specification for closed-system connectors and a 2-year contract being awarded to Kimal plc for its Clave connector.
<doc id=QA/15160548> Clinical factors associated with achieving K/DOQI hemoglobin targets in hemodialysis patients.  Few studies have assessed treatable factors associated with achieving the Kidney Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative (K/DOQI) guideline of hemoglobin values of 11 to 12 g/dL in anemic hemodialysis patients.This was a retrospective study of 30,029 prevalent hemodialysis patients with mean hemoglobin values less than 11 g/dL between January 1 and March 31, 1999. We studied the associations between demographic characteristics, comorbid conditions, disease severity, urea reduction ratio, epoetin doses, intravenous iron doses, and mean hemoglobin values in the ensuing 3 months.Approximately half (51.3%) of patients reached a mean hemoglobin value of at least 11 g/dL. By multiple logistic regression, the major factors showing a positive association with this outcome included a urea reduction ratio greater than 75% (odds ratio [OR], 1.23; P < 0.0001) and intravenous iron (OR: for 0 vials/month, 1; for < 1, 1.22; for 1 to 1.9, 1.36; 2 to 2.9, 1.48; for 3 to 3.9, 1.61; for > or = 4, 1.79; P < 0.0001), while a negative association with hemoglobin response, possibly representing epoetin resistance, was shown for initial severity of anemia (OR: for initial hemoglobin value < 7 g/dL, 0.06; for 7 to 7.9 g/dL, 0.12; for 8 to 8.9 g/dL, 0.23; for 9 to 9.9 g/dL, 0.45; for 10 to 10.9 g/dL, 1; P < 0.0001) and epoetin doses in the highest quintile (OR for > 38,000 units/wk, 0.76; P < 0.0001).In patients with persistently low hemoglobin values, optimizing urea clearance and a proactive approach to intravenous iron therapy may enhance epoetin responsiveness.
<doc id=QA/11187701> Dissemination of the use of the electronic patient record in high-quality workmanship: the regional IT consultant for primary care doctors.  The number of general practitioners in Denmark with electronic patient record systems is rising. More than 80% of all GP practices now have computerised patient record systems. These medical practices communicate electronically with hospitals, laboratories, pharmacies and county councils. With the procurement of electronic patient record systems and connection to the Danish Healthcare Data Network, the vast majority of patient data in medical practices is now held in electronic form. This offers good opportunities for the data to be used not just in the consultation situation but for quality development and the monitoring of quality targets in general practice as well. However, the individual medical practices do not utilise the opportunities presented to them by their computer systems. The Quality Development Committee in Funen County Council has therefore set up an IT consultant scheme to provide guidance and instruction in the various computer systems found in general practice today, in order to optimise the use of data for quality monitoring.
<doc id=QA/20084926> [Quality assurance in tuberculosis laboratories].  The laboratory has always played a critical role in diagnosis of tuberculosis and monitoring treatment. The basic aim in tuberculosis laboratory is to generate accurate and reliable test results for clinicians. This aim can be achieved by using quality assurance programs. Three main components of quality assurance are, internal quality control, a process by which each laboratory continuously monitors its own performance (guidelines, education and check of staff); external quality control, a process whereby laboratory performance between the other laboratories is assessed by external quality control organization (accuracy and efficiency) and quality improvement (continuous development of quality which involves identification of errors and remedial action). In this article, quality control procedures which are followed in tuberculosis laboratory to ensure the quality assurance, have been reviewed.
<doc id=QA/22673377> [Hospital standardised mortality ratios do not with certainty reflect the quality of patient care].  Hospital standardised mortality ratios (HSMRs) are presumed to reflect an overall quality of patient care in hospitals. Figures for all Danish hospitals are being published quarterly on the Internet, and aggregated values are used to set goals for both regional and nationwide efforts to improve quality of care and patient safety. We have analysed the available data from 2007 through 2011 and cannot reconcile the quite substantial and often sudden changes in HSMRs with changes in quality of care, but believe that they are due to inherent noise in calculating HSMRs, e.g. owing to variable quality of the diagnostic coding.
<doc id=QA/16524234> [The growing endangerment of specialists in private practice--opening up access to hospital outpatient clinics from a legal point of view].  There are two new rules of the German Health System Modernisation Act (GMG) affecting the activity of specialists in private practice: the authorization of a hospital according to Sect. 116 a (SGB V; Title Five of the Social Code) subsidiary to the registration of a SHI physicians and the authorization of a hospital-based physician. Negative effects on office-based physician in private practice will only occur if, for example, an ambulatory healthcare centre (MVZ) is being established by the hospital owner. Currently, Sect. 116 b SGB V also does not have any negative impact on office-based specialists. The benefits catalogue according to Sect. 116 b Para 3 SGB V has so far been narrowly defined. And, in the face of the diverging interests within the Joint Federal Committee Health Insurances/NationalAssociation of Statutory Health Insurance Physicians and Health Reform Consensus Act (GKG)--a noticeable broadening of this catalogue is not to be expected. Also, such a broadening of the scope of this catalogue will be counteracted by the fact that no legal right exists to the conclusion of a contract with the health insurance companies and that the health insurers will actually have to additionally reimburse for medical services according to the catalogue of Sect. 116b Para 3 SGB V beyond the total reimbursement budget.
<doc id=QA/22321524> What happens to racial and ethnic minorities after cancer surgery at American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program hospitals?  Inadequate access has contributed to widespread racial disparities in cancer care in the United States. However, the outcomes for racial minorities at quality-seeking hospitals, such as those participating in the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (ACS NSQIP), remain unknown. We hypothesized that operative outcomes for racial and ethnic minority patients after cancer surgery at ACS NSQIP hospitals are comparable with those for white patients.Using the 2005-2008 ACS NSQIP data, we identified 38,926 patients who underwent thoracic, abdominal, or pelvic cancer surgery. We used multivariate logistic regression to examine the association between race and ethnicity and short-term (30-day) operative outcomes after cancer surgery. Sensitivity analyses were performed to ensure the relationship remained consistent after stratification by procedure.Nonwhite patients constituted 16.9% of patients treated for cancer surgery in ACS NSQIP hospitals. Although nonwhite patients were more likely to have higher levels of comorbidities and undergo more complex resections (p < 0.05 for all), multivariate analyses demonstrated that these patients were as likely as white patients to have adverse short-term operative outcomes develop after cancer surgery. These results persisted after stratification by extent of surgical procedure. However, black, Hispanic, and American-Indian/Alaskan-Native patients were more likely to experience prolonged length of stay (odds ratio for black vs white patients = 1.33; p < 0.001).Racial and ethnic minority patients who undergo their cancer surgery at ACS NSQIP hospitals have short-term operative outcomes similar to white patients, but they remain hospitalized longer. These findings suggest that access to quality-driven hospitals might ameliorate racial disparities in cancer care and outcomes. Future policies should focus on expanding access to quality-driven surgical facilities as a step toward timely and optimal cancer care.Copyright © 2012 American College of Surgeons. All rights reserved.
<doc id=QA/21378301> Developing policy, standard orders, and quality-assurance monitoring for palliative sedation therapy.  The development of a policy, evidence-based standard orders, and monitoring for palliative sedation therapy (PST) is described.Concerns regarding PST at the University of Minnesota Medical Center (UMMC) arose and needed to be addressed in a formal process. A multidisciplinary group consisting of palliative care physicians, nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, and clinical pharmacy specialists reached consensus on the practice model and medications to be used for PST. Major elements of the plan included the development and implementation of an institutional policy for palliative sedation; standard orders for patient care, sedation, and monitoring; education for staff, patients, and patients' family members; and quality-assurance monitoring. A literature review was performed to identify research and guidelines defining the practice of PST. Policy content includes the use of a standard order set linking patient care, medication administration, the monitoring of sedation, and symptom management. Approval of the policy involved several UMMC committees. An evaluation matrix was used to determine critical areas for PST monitoring and to guide development of a form to monitor quality. A retrospective chart audit using the quality-assurance monitoring form assessed baseline sedation medication and patient outcomes. Assessment of compliance began in the fall of 2008, after the policy and standard orders were approved by the UMMC medical executive committee. In 2008, two cases of PST were monitored using the standardized form. PST cases will be continually monitored and analyzed.Development of policy, standard orders, and quality-assurance monitoring for PST required a formal multidisciplinary process. A process-improvement process is critical to defining institutional policy, educational goals, and outcome metrics for PST.
<doc id=QA/8312597> Bringing quality to the customer: a new paradigm for quality managers.  The transition of health care organizations to total quality improvement (TQI) models has significant consequences for quality manager roles and quality systems. Changing paradigms regarding one's quality role and programs requires critical self-awareness, new knowledge, and a fresh approach to employee-customer relations. The quality manager's challenges are to discover one's own learning needs, integrate new philosophies into one's behavior, and successfully model and mentor TQI to fellow health care providers. Quality managers have an opportunity to develop a vital and powerful leadership role vis-à-vis TQI and the point of contact between health care provider and patient.
<doc id=QA/22150202> Quality improvement in medical education: current state and future directions.  During the last decade, there has been a drive to improve the quality of patient care and prevent the occurrence of avoidable errors. This review describes current efforts to teach or engage trainees in patient safety and quality improvement (QI), summarises progress to date, as well as successes and challenges, and lists our recommendations for the next steps that will shape the future of patient safety and QI in medical education.Trainees encounter patient safety and QI through three main groups of activity. First are formal curricula that teach concepts or methods intended to facilitate trainees' participation in QI activities. These curricula increase learner knowledge and may improve clinical processes, but demonstrate limited capacity to modify learner behaviours. Second are educational activities that impart specific skills related to safety or quality which are considered to represent core doctor competencies (e.g. effective patient handover). These are frequently taught effectively, but without emphasis on the general safety or quality principles that inform the relevant skills. Third are real-life QI initiatives that involve trainees as active or passive participants. These innovative approaches expose trainees to safety and quality by integrating QI activities into trainees' day-to-day work. However, this integration can be challenging and can sometimes result in tension with broader educational goals.To prepare the next generation of doctors to make meaningful contributions to the quality mission, we propose the following call to action. Firstly, a major effort to build faculty capacity, especially among teachers of QI, should be instigated. Secondly, accreditation standards and assessment methods, both during training and at end-of-training certification examinations, should explicitly target these competencies. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, we must refocus our attention at all levels of training and instil fundamental, collaborative, open-minded behaviours so that future clinicians are primed to promote a culture of safer, higher-quality care.© Blackwell Publishing Ltd 2012.
<doc id=QA/12878106> Value importance and value congruence as determinants of trust in health policy actors.  The paper examines levels and determinants of trust in a health care system and in key actors in the health policy community. Talcott Parsons theorizes that the sharing of common values is a necessary condition for interpersonal trust to exist; this paper tests that notion at the level of systemic (institutional) trust. The paper reports findings of a 1999 survey of 493 randomly selected residents of Calgary, Alberta, Canada. It uses multiple regression analysis to identify the determinants of three different types of trust-generalized systemic trust, fiduciary trust, and generalized trust in particular actors' input to health system changes. Among the numerous independent variables, special attention is devoted to the degree of congruence or incongruence between the importance which respondents attach to one of the values enunciated in the Canada Health Act-namely, 'accessibility' (equal access to quality health care)-and the importance which respondents believe is attached to that value by the Regional Health Authority and by the Premier of the province. Both value importance and value congruence on equal accessibility are found to be important factors explaining variation in all three types of trust. In explaining levels of trust in the Premier on the issue of health care system reform, congruence on equal accessibility proved to be even more important than such factors as political partisanship, political cynicism, and personal experience as a patient in the health care system. Findings also suggest that there is an emotional component to systemic trust.
<doc id=QA/20044426> Program characteristics associated with testing for HIV and hepatitis C in veterans substance use disorder clinics.  This study examined whether organizational characteristics and quality improvement initiatives were related to HIV and hepatitis C (HCV) testing rates in veterans' substance use disorders programs.Data were collected by surveying 232 program directors at all U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) substance use disorder programs.Program directors (N=223) reported that, on average, 35% of their patients were tested for HIV (median=10%) and 57% were tested for HCV (median=80%). Of the quality improvement initiatives examined, computerized reminders to clinicians (p=.02) and a designated clinician for screening (p=.01) were positively associated with HCV testing, and computerized templates that guide clinicians through ordering of testing were positively associated with HIV testing (p=.06).Despite national emphasis on HIV testing, rates of testing were lower for HIV than for HCV in programs serving veterans with substance use disorders and at risk of both illnesses. System-level quality improvement initiatives may be effective at increasing rates of infectious disease screening.
<doc id=QA/1509810> A quality assurance for rural laboratories: a report on a trial distribution in Momase Region, Papua New Guinea.  The strengthening of laboratory services in rural health centres is an important component of the Papua New Guinea National Health Plan. As part of the management support scheme for these services a National Quality Assurance Scheme has been formulated to monitor their technical performance. A trial distribution of quality assurance specimens to 44 laboratories in the Momase Region was met with enthusiastic response and encouraging results. The trial will be used as a model for a nation-wide distribution.
<doc id=QA/10345539> Ensuring quality and accountability in managed care.  The rapid growth of new forms of managed care in the United States in recent decades has brought with it increasing concerns regarding the quality of care delivered by practitioners in these plans. This article examines the various regulatory demands that are being placed on Managed Care Organizations (MCOs). The authors look at the major determinants that are likely to bring about significant changes in the health care sector for both patients and providers and predict how these shifts will affect the quality of health care services in the near future. They discuss how the quality of health care, rather than the cost of those services, can become and remain the primary factor in the delivery of health care services. Ultimately, they conclude that increased participation by the federal government is required to protect the rights of patients and ensure better quality and accountability for health care services delivered by MCOs.
<doc id=QA/7614352> Quality improvement for the ESRD community.  As an introduction to this issue of Advances in Renal Replacement Therapy, fundamental principals of quality improvement ar described, with examples for the dialysis unit, and critical differences between quality assurance and quality improvement are explained.
<doc id=QA/23997302> Milwaukee Laboratory System Improvement Program (L-SIP).  The Laboratory System Improvement Program (L-SIP) of the Association of Public Health Laboratories aims to improve state public health laboratory (PHL) system performance through continuous quality improvement. We successfully applied this state assessment tool to a local PHL (LPHL) system by tailoring it to reflect local system needs and created an LPHL system definition explaining how a local system differs from, yet complements, a state system. On November 18, 2010, 75 stakeholders from 40 agencies assessed the Milwaukee, Wisconsin, PHL system, capturing themes, strengths and weaknesses of the system, and scores for each of the 10 Essential Public Health Services. A Laboratory Advisory Committee analyzed assessment results to identify a strategic focus of research and workforce development and define an action plan, which is now being carried out. Milwaukee's L-SIP process is effectively improving LPHL system research and workforce development while raising community awareness of the system. 
<doc id=QA/11418254> Cost utility of public clinics to increase pneumococcal vaccines in the elderly.  Pneumococcal immunization has been shown to be cost effective, is recommended by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, and is covered by Medicare. Despite that, over 50% of the population aged > or =65 is not vaccinated, leading to significant mortality and morbidity. The objective of this study is to evaluate the costs and the cost utility of immunization in nontraditional settings (community clinics set up to provide influenza and pneumococcal vaccinations) as a strategy to increase pneumococcal immunization rates.A cost-utility analysis of public immunization clinics in Monroe County, New York, during the fall of 1998. The study included 1207 adults aged > or =65. Costs of operating the clinics and of vaccine administration were measured. The cost of health sequela and estimates of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were obtained from prior studies. Sensitivity analyses were performed to test several important assumptions.Unlike immunizations in physician offices, immunizations in nontraditional settings are not cost saving. Estimates of incremental cost-utility ratios ranged from $4215 per QALY to $12,617 per QALY, depending on the underlying assumptions of the model.Clinics in nontraditional settings offering pneumococcal immunization have cost-utility ratios near and below those of other recommended vaccines. These results suggest that such clinics should be considered a viable strategy for increasing pneumococcal immunization rates.
<doc id=QA/10139410> Assessing discomfort after anaesthesia: should you ask the patient or read the record?  To assess the quality of anaesthesia care from the patients' viewpoint compared with the hospital record.Prospective study during 1988-9.Four teaching hospitals (A-D) in Canada.15,960 inpatients receiving anaesthetic requiring at least an overnight stay, for whom an interview and review of hospital records within 72 hours of surgery were complete.Rates of postoperative symptoms of discomfort (nausea or vomiting, headache, back pain, sore throat, eye symptoms, and tingling) according to the hospital record versus interview and the relation between symptoms and patients' satisfaction with the anaesthetic experience.The preparation of completed interviews ranged from 31.0% to 72.7%, owing mainly to patients discharge (hospitals A and B) and severity of illness (C and D). Interviewed patients were similar to all inpatients in the hospitals but were younger and healthier and more had had effective operations and were general surgical than cardiovascular or neurosurgical patients. In all, 26% to 46% of patients at the four hospitals reported at least one symptom of discomfort. Agreement between interviews and hospital records was low, symptoms being more commonly reported by interview than in the record (for example, headache was reported for 5.8%-17% of patients compared with 0.3%-3.0% in hospital records). After controlling for case mix patients who reported at least one symptom were 2.91 times (95% confidence interval 1.89 to 4.50) more likely to be dissatisfied with their anaesthetic care than patients who did not.Anaesthesia services are typically neglected in studies of hospital quality, yet patients express considerable anxiety about anaesthetic care. Monitoring and recording patients' discomfort clearly need to be improved if the quality of anaesthesia is to be properly evaluated.
<doc id=QA/15876661> An inter-laboratory comparison study of image quality of PET scanners using the NEMA NU 2-2001 procedure for assessment of image quality.  An inter-laboratory comparison study was conducted to assess the image quality of PET scanners in Austria. The survey included both dedicated PET scanners (D-PET, n = 8) and coincidence cameras (GC-PET, n = 7). Measurement of image quality was based on the NEMA (National Electrical Manufacturers Association) NU 2-2001 protocol and the IEC (International Electrotechnical Commission) body phantom. The latter contains six fillable spheres ranging in diameter from 37 mm down to 10 mm and a 'lung' insert. The two largest lesions L1-2 simulate cold lesions, the four smaller ones (L3-6) are filled with 18F and activity concentration ratios relative to background of 8:1 and 4:1, respectively. Acquisition and reconstruction in the study employed the participating institutes' standard oncological processing protocol. Calculation of contrast of the spheres was performed with a fully automated procedure. Contrast quality indices (CQIs) reflecting global performance were obtained by summing individual contrast values. Other image quality parameters calculated according to the NEMA protocol were background variability and relative error for correction of attenuation and scatter. Contrast values obtained were 61 +/- 16 and 37 +/- 14 for L1 (per cent contrast +/- SD for D-PET and GC-PET, respectively), 57 +/- 16 and 29 +/- 16 for L2, 46 +/- 10 and 26 +/- 6.3 for L3, 37 +/- 10 and 15 +/- 4.3 for L4, 26 +/- 11.5 and 6.1 +/- 2.5 for L5, 14 +/- 7.1 and 2.6 +/- 2.6 for L6, with D-PET systems consistently being superior to GC-PET systems. CQIs permitted ranking of the scanners, also demonstrating a clear distinction between D-PET and GC-PET systems. Background variability was largest for GC-PET systems; the relative error of attenuation and scatter correction was significantly correlated with image quality for D-PET systems only. The study demonstrated considerable differences in image quality not only between GC-PET and D-PET systems but also between individual D-PET systems with possible consequences for clinical interpretation of images and measurement of quantitative indices such as the standardized uptake value. The study provided valuable feedback to the participants as well as baseline data for improving interchangeability of PET images and of quantitative indices between different laboratories.
<doc id=QA/17320654> Standards for surgical complication reporting in urologic oncology: time for a change.  No standards for reporting surgical morbidity exist in the urologic oncology literature, yet surgical outcomes are used to assess the success of surgical techniques and surgeon competency. This study analyzes the quality of complication reporting in the urologic literature.Reports identified by a MEDLINE search reporting surgical outcomes after radical prostatectomy, radical cystectomy, retroperitoneal node dissection, and radical/partial nephrectomy were analyzed using 10 established criteria for surgical complication reporting. Open (n = 73) and minimally invasive (n = 36) surgical series of 50 patients or more published from January 1995 to December 2005 were reviewed.A total of 109 studies reporting the outcomes for 146,961 patients, including 95 retrospective (87%), 11 prospective (10%), 1 randomized (1%), and 2 population-based (2%) studies were analyzed. Of the 10 critical reporting elements, 2% met 9 to 10, 21% met 7 to 8, 43% met 5 to 6, 30% met 3 to 4, and 4% met 1 to 2 criteria. The most commonly underreported criteria were complication definitions in 79%, complication severity/grade in 67%, outpatient data in 63%, comorbidities in 59%, and the duration of the reporting period in 56%. Additionally, 47% of minimally invasive surgical series met fewer than 5 of the 10 reporting criteria compared with 28% of open series. Of the 36 studies reporting complication severity, a numeric grading system was used in 7 (19%), with 29 (81%) of 36 using a major versus minor categorization but using 26 different definitions of what constituted major.The disparity in the quality of surgical complication reporting in urologic oncology makes it impossible to compare the morbidity of surgical techniques and outcomes. Standard guidelines need to be established.
<doc id=QA/12856555> Understanding hospital readiness for computerized physician order entry.  Many hospitals in the United States are in early stages of decision making and planning to implement computerized physician order entry (CPOE) to improve patient safety and quality of care. The targeted processes and the software for CPOE are complex, and implementation is a large-scale change effort for most hospitals. Hospitals can increase the likelihood of success by understanding and addressing gaps in CPOE readiness. ASSESSING CPOE READINESS: A CPOE readiness assessment tool was developed that includes several different components: external environment; organizational leadership, structure, and culture; care standardization;, order management; access to information; information technology composition; and infrastructure. The presence or absence of these indicators in a particular hospital was determined by on-site interviews, walkarounds with direct observations, and document review.Assessment results for the first 17 hospitals (bed size, 75-906 beds) indicated that the lowest average component score was in care standardization, while the highest average component score was in organizational structure and function. Organizational culture and the order management process also had low average scores.This CPOE readiness assessment revealed significant gaps in all the hospitals examined. Identifying these gaps and addressing them before CPOE implementation can reduce risks. Organizations need to develop expertise at accomplishing and sustaining change; understanding and building CPOE readiness is an important first step.
<doc id=QA/20949806> Using an acuity-adaptable unit for urological services.  The University of Pittsburgh Medical Center--Shadyside Campus uses an acuity-adaptable unit model that has streamlined patient care. Pre-operative preparation and post-operative recovery nursing care on one designated nursing unit provide a less stressful experience for the surgical patient.
<doc id=QA/17547217> [Customer satisfaction in home care: methodological issues based on a survey carried out in Lazio].  Home care customer satisfaction has been, until now, rarely evaluated. After illustrating the main italian regional surveys on this issue, the article presents a customer satisfaction survey carried out in the district of Civitavecchia (Local Health Unit 'Rome F'), Lazio, regarding 30 home care beneficiaries. Methodological aspects emerging from the survey are basically focused on: advantages and disadvantages of quantitative and qualitative approaches (possibly associated each other); main criteria of eligibility of people selected for interviewing, both patients or caregivers; conditions that maximize answers reliability, including training on interviewers. Authors highlight opportunity of using such kind of survey, integrated with other different tools, into a systemic vision, for promoting management changes coming from suggested problems, aimed at total quality management.
<doc id=QA/25775047> Bridging the gap between point-of-care testing and laboratory testing in hemostasis.  Point-of-care (POC) testing within hemostasis is an expanding field, with the most widely used test being POC international normalized ratio (INR). Many of these devices are being used in a nonlaboratory setting by staff with no laboratory training. In the United Kingdom, external quality assessment (EQA) is provided by the organization UK National External Quality Assessment Scheme for Blood Coagulation (UK NEQAS BC). Participants within the UK NEQAS BC POC INR program are largely based in primary care (77%), with the majority of EQA samples and patients tests being performed by nurses (70%). Many of these centers do not have support from the laboratory staff and may, therefore, not understand the requirement for a robust quality control (QC) system comprising both internal quality control (IQC) and EQA. From data acquired through a questionnaire of these UK NEQAS BC users, we observed that 2% of the centers never perform IQC tests, only 29% perform IQC tests when starting a new batch of test strips, and just 15% carry out IQC with each clinic as recommended by the UK guidelines. The imprecision of EQA tests was greater for POC users than in the UK NEQAS BC hospital laboratory program, with average coefficients of variation for a 2-year period of 11.0 and 7.3%, respectively. This may reflect the handling of EQA samples rather than the imprecision of the method, due to the lack of laboratory training amongst POC staff. POC INR in the UK could greatly benefit from more interaction and support from laboratories to these POC testers. Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.
<doc id=QA/1316110> Human T-lymphotropic virus type I/II. Status of enzyme immunoassay and western blot testing in the United States in 1989 and 1990.  In three performance evaluation surveys, panels that consisted of human T-lymphotropic virus type I or type II (HTLV-I/II) antibody-positive and -negative plasma samples were mailed to laboratories that voluntarily participated in the Centers for Disease Control Model Performance Evaluation Program. Donor samples were identical among surveys. In each survey, more than 98% of the laboratories reported enzyme immunoassay (EIA) test results; about 11% also reported results of Western blot (WB) testing. Variation in analytic sensitivity (96.7% to 99.4%) and specificity (98.3% to 99.5%) of EIA tests was noted in the three surveys. For WB testing, no nonreactive interpretations were reported for HTLV-I/II antibody-positive samples in any survey; however, indeterminate interpretations were reported for 35.2% to 40.7% of the WB tests that were performed on HTLV-I/II antibody-positive samples. More than 95% of these indeterminate WB test interpretations were reported for HTLV-II antibody-positive samples. Although HTLV-I/II antibody tests are generally sensitive and specific, their accuracy could be further improved by increasing the specificity of EIA tests and the sensitivity of WB tests.
<doc id=QA/16263977> The introduction of computerized physician order entry and change management in a tertiary pediatric hospital.  The objectives of this review were to document the introduction of computerized physician order entry (CPOE)-centered changes in an academic tertiary care center and to review the CPOE-focused literature.We performed a systematic literature review of CPOE-related articles indexed on Medline, with particular emphasis on pediatric applications. We focused our commentary around the concepts involved in the implementation process at a tertiary pediatric hospital.In 2001, the Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh (CHP) embarked on the process of CPOE design and implementation. We determined that CPOE is a tool for improving pediatric care. The CPOE implementation process is more than a technologic change; it involves an organizational cultural transformation. Although the complete transition to CPOE was little more than 1 year ago, CHP has overcome the typical obstacles of CPOE implementation to begin to realize its many benefits. The early success of CHP was achieved by creating a realistic, positive, work environment, which fostered hospital-wide participation and integration.CPOE is an invaluable resource for supporting patient safety in health care settings. The successful implementation of CPOE requires a paradigm shift in hospital policies and processes.
<doc id=QA/15221103> [Diabetes mellitus needs unrestricted evaluation of patient data to yield treatment progress. The DUTY Register].  Patients with diabetes mellitus require consistent risk management that fulfills risk reduction guidelines for patients suffering from CHD (coronary heart disease). The aim of the DUTY Registry (diabetes mellitus needs unrestricted evaluation of patient data to yield treatment progress) was to show whether the guidelines of the Deutsche Diabetes-Gesellschaft (DDG) are incorporated consistently into daily practice. Therefore 59,035 patients suffering from diabetes mellitus type 1 and type 2 were examined by general practitioners. The physician was requested to enter 20 consecutive patients with existing or newly diagnosed diabetes mellitus into the registry. A total of 45,605 patients showed up for the final examination after 9 months. The results presented show that too many patients suffering from diabetes mellitus do not receive consistent therapy for cardiovascular risk factors according to guidelines and therefore the required target values were rarely reached.
<doc id=QA/10179589> Medico-economical use of the medical record or the bridge between minimal and detailed data.  Medico-economical use of the medical record: the title encloses two different notions which represent two different trends within medical informatics. The first trend is worried about weighting aspects of health resources consumption, mainly about hospital acute care; their key-words are DRG (Diagnostic Related Groups), Case-Mix, reimbursement by pathology, measurement of indicators (severity or outcome), costs. The other trend is looking for deeper understanding of the medical process and for better diffusion of relevant information helping the day-to-day care process; they speak of CPR (Computerized patient record), full text reports and corresponding retrieval, detailed data, medical records on Internet, large access to literature and databases. It is mandatory to realize a bridge between these two trends for facing the information technology revolution entering into a self-revolutioning medicine. The purpose of this paper is to begin this bridge by showing what the DRG people expect from the CPR people and what the latter should receive from the former.
<doc id=QA/8037561> Critical pathway methodology: effectiveness in congenital heart surgery.  Critical pathway methodology has been demonstrated to provide producible reduction in average length of stay (ALOS) in adults in certain diagnostic-related groups and operations such as coronary artery bypass grafting. The efficacy of this approach in congenital heart surgery was explored. Two hundred eighty-six consecutive patients from a health maintenance organization treated by a single surgeon since the institution of diagnostic-related group coding at that health maintenance organization constituted the study group. One hundred fourteen patients were treated at a university hospital without critical pathway methodology (group 1) and 172, subsequently at the health maintenance organization institution using the methodology (group 2). Operation/lesion, age, and diagnostic-related group matching was possible in 61 pairs. Examination of the ALOS Hospital (operative and postoperative days) for the entire cohort revealed a 43.8% reduction in ALOS Hospital (p < 0.0001) and a 39.0% reduction in ALOS Intensive Care Unit (p < 0.0001). There was also significant reduction in ALOS Hospital and ALOS Intensive Care Unit in the operation/lesion-matched subsets. Outcome measures including operative and late mortality, readmission, unscheduled emergency room and clinic visits, and health maintenance organization family assessment survey demonstrated no improvement in outcome with increased hospital stay. Thus, critical pathway methodology when used in patients undergoing a congenital heart operation produces a significant reduction in hospital stay and intensive care unit stay as well as quality patient care with uniformity of outcome.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/24025511> [Molecular mechanism and effect of microRNA185 on proliferation, migration and invasion of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma].  To explore the role and mechanism of microRNA185 (miR-185) on proliferation, migration and invasion of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC).Samples were obtained from 23 ESCC patients undergoing surgery whose were confirmed by pathological diagnosis of esophageal carcinoma from 2002 to 2012,at Department of Thoracic Surgery,Cancer Institute and Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College. Real-time PCR was used to measure the expression of miR-185. The xCELLigence RTCA MP system and Transwell assay were performed to detect the effect of miR-185 on proliferation, migration and invasion of ESCC respectively. After transfecting of miR-185 mimic into KYSE150, the expression of Six1's downstream gene cyclin A1 was evaluated by real-time PCR. After transfection of miR-185 inhibitor into KYSE30, the expression of E-cadherin, a downstream protein of Six1, was observed under confocal microscope.The expression level of miR-185 was down-regulated in ESCC compared with adjacent normal tissue (0.006 vs 0.039,P = 0.016). After transfection of miR-185 mimic, miR-185 significantly inhibited proliferation, migration and invasion of ESCC.Transwell assay showed, in comparison with the control group, the number of KYSE150 metastatic and invasive cells was respectively decreased(146 ± 15 vs 64 ± 11, 110 ± 12 vs 67 ± 5, both P < 0.05). And the expression level of cyclin A1 decreased. After transfection of miR-185 inhibitor,the expression level of E-cadherin decreased.miR-185 may inhibit proliferation, migration and invasion of ESCC through its target gene Six1.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/9693674> Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin associated with systemic sclerosis.  The coexistence of sclerosis and cancer has been recognized with increasing frequency. However, squamous cell carcinoma of the skin associated with systemic sclerosis is relatively rare.The mechanisms of malignancy in systemic sclerosis are discussed.An 18-year-old girl with progressive systemic sclerosis is described.The patient had developed squamous cell carcinoma of the skin on the sclerosed skin of her left leg requiring amputation. The tumor recurred on the distal end of the stump. Local radiotherapy was unsuccessful.This report suggests that sclerosis of the skin may manifest a greater risk of developing skin cancers unrelated to chronic injury or scarring of the skin.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/22527161> Dietary intake of lignans and risk of adenocarcinoma of the esophagus and gastroesophageal junction.  The strong male predominance in esophageal and gastroesophageal junctional adenocarcinoma remains unexplained. Sex hormonal influence has been suggested, but not proven. A protective role of dietary phytoestrogen lignans was hypothesized.A Swedish nationwide population-based case-control study was conducted in 1995-1997, including 181 cases of esophageal adenocarcinoma, 255 cases of gastroesophageal junctional adenocarcinoma, 158 cases of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, and 806 control subjects. Data on various exposures, including dietary data, were collected through personal interviews and questionnaires. Dietary intake of lignans was assessed using a food frequency questionnaire and categorized into quartiles based on the consumption among the control participants. Unconditional logistic regression was used to calculate odds ratios (ORs) with 95 % confidence intervals (CIs), including adjustment for all established risk factors.Participants in the highest quartile of intake of lignans compared with the lowest quartile were at a decreased risk of esophageal adenocarcinoma (OR, 0.65; 95 % CI, 0.38-1.12; p for trend =0.03), gastroesophageal junctional adenocarcinoma (OR, 0.37; 95 % CI, 0.23-0.58; p for trend <0.0001), and these adenocarcinomas combined (OR, 0.45; 95 % CI, 0.31-0.67; p for trend <0.0001). No clear associations were found between lignan intake and risk of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.This population-based study indicates that a high dietary intake of lignans decreases the risk of adenocarcinoma of the esophagus and gastroesophageal junction.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/3972297> Lymphangiosarcoma of the edematous thigh after radiation therapy for carcinoma of the vulva.  A 66-year-old patient was treated with external radiation therapy for an advanced carcinoma of the vulva. Seven years later, a lymphangiosarcoma developed in her edematous lower extremity. Lymphangiosarcomas have been reported to occur in postmastectomy patients; however, this is only the third case in a patient with a gynecologic primary malignancy. In anticipation of possible increased use of radiation therapy in vulvar carcinoma, gynecologists should be aware of this rare, highly aggressive neoplasm.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/17767868> [The effect of oral candida to development of oral leukoplakia into cancer].  To investigate the rate of candidal infection in different condition of oral epithelia, that may imply the possibility of candida in the canceration of oral leukoplakia.Saliva culture was used to detect the infection of candida in 100 cases of healthy control group, 110 cases of oral leukoplakia and 11 cases of oral squamous cell carcinoma, whose smoking condition were collected carefully. The results were analyzed by Crosstabs, Bivariate Correlations and Binary Logistic Regression analysis.With Crosstabs and Bivariate Correlations analysis, there was significant correlation within malignant level of oral leukoplakias and candidal infection rates (r = 0.148, P = 0.032). With Crosstabs single factor analysis, there was significant correlation within saliva culture results and pathological types (chi(2) = 21.757, P = 0.010). With Binary Logistic Regression analysis, there was significant correlation within saliva culture results and both of subjects, ages (OR = 0.72, P = 0.000) and duration of smoking (OR = 0.37, P = 0.01).Candidal infection may be one of the most important factors inducing dysplasia of epithelia and malignant transformation of oral leukoplakia. So saliva culture should be taken as a rule for patients with oral leukoplakia. The follow-up of oral leukoplakia patients with candidal infection should be enhanced.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/1088981> Effect of postmortem tissue fixation on tooth mobility and pocket depth in human beings.  With the exception of dry skulls, postmortem human material is rarely used in the study of periodontal disease. If the relationship between clinical periodontal measurements, such as mobility and pocket depth, were known antemortem versus postmortem, a new source of information would be available. In this study, such measurements were performed on a patient whose mandible was resected because of a malignant condition. Mobility was found to have decreased; pocket depths initially increased, and then returned to nearly preoperative levels.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/1527607> Tumors of the lateral wall of the cavernous sinus.  The lateral dural wall of the cavernous sinus is composed of two layers, the outer dural layer (dura propria) and the inner membranous layer. Tumors arising from the contents of the lateral dural wall are located between these two layers and are classified as interdural. They are in essence extradural/extracavernous. The inner membranous layer separates these tumors from the venous channels of the cavernous sinus. Preoperative recognition of tumors in this location is critical for selecting an appropriate microsurgical approach. Characteristics displayed by magnetic resonance imaging show an oval-shaped, smooth-bordered mass with medial displacement but not encasement of the cavernous internal carotid artery. Tumors in this location can be resected safely without entering the cavernous sinus proper by using techniques that permit reflection of the dura propria of the lateral wall (methods of Hakuba or Dolenc). During the last 5 years, the authors have identified and treated five patients with interdural cavernous sinus tumors, which included two trigeminal neurinomas arising from the first division of the fifth cranial nerve, two epidermoid tumors, and one malignant melanoma presumed to be primary. The pathoanatomical features that make this group of tumors unique are discussed, as well as the clinical and radiological findings, and selection of the microsurgical approach. A more favorable prognosis for tumor resection and cranial nerve preservation is predicted for interdural tumors when compared with other cavernous sinus tumors.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/14961580> Elevated hTERT mRNA levels: A potential determinant of bronchial squamous cell carcinoma (in situ).  Expression levels of hTERT mRNA were investigated by RT-PCR in tissue specimens of patients with (Group A) and without (Group B) clinically overt bronchial carcinoma, respectively. Bronchial carcinoma (n = 9) and distant normal (n = 9) specimens were analyzed in Group A. The chance of carcinoma seemed to increase with increasing hTERT mRNA levels (OR = 6.04, 95% CI = 1.02-37). Group B was comprised of 21 patients who underwent autofluorescence bronchoscopy. After analysis of 66 bronchial biopsies the chance of prevalent carcinoma in situ or carcinoma increased with increasing hTERT mRNA levels (OR = 6.19, 95% CI = 1.55-25). Variables like age, gender, smoking history, history of cancer within the airways or the degree of lymphocyte infiltrate in the specimens did not modify this relation. In 7 Group B patients in whom bronchial cancer was diagnosed during follow-up, biopsies taken before cancer diagnosis from both the area of the newly developed tumor and distantly from this area had been analyzed for hTERT expression. The median hTERT mRNA level in the biopsies from the area of future cancer was significantly higher than in biopsies taken from distant sites (p < 0.03). These data indicate that elevated hTERT mRNA is associated with an increased relative risk of prevalent and incident bronchial squamous cell carcinoma (in situ).Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/12397521> [Functional results succeeding primary combined external radiotherapy and brachytherapy for head and neck tumors].  Histologically proven radical resections often lead to severe functional problems especially in upper aero-digestive-tract tumors. Oncologically the combination of external radiotherapy and brachytherapy offers an alternative treatment option. The functional results and the complication rate in stage III and IV tumors of the oral tongue, floor of mouth and oropharynx are described in a patients series.The follow-up includes 17 consecutive patients who were primarily treated by a combination of external radiotherapy and brachytherapy between 1997 and 2000. The oncological benefit (complete remission, disease-free survival), the functional results (mastication, swallowing, speech and pain) and the complications were reviewed.After the follow-up period 16/17 patients were alive. There were 3 major complications, one of them lethal. The functional results resembled those after surgical resections.A combined radiotherapy is a feasible method of treating patients who refrain from surgery. Moreover the application ranges from inoperability to postoperative radiotherapy in cases with close or positive margins. In connection with neck-dissections and therapy of recurrent cancer major complications may occur. In contrast to the general opinion radiation therapy was not superior to surgical resection concerning functional sequelae.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/20406988> The tumor-suppressive function of Connexin43 in keratinocytes is mediated in part via interaction with caveolin-1.  Connexin43 (Cx43) is known to have tumor-suppressive effects, but the underlying mechanisms are still poorly understood. In keratinocytes, we previously showed that the COOH-terminal domain of Cx43 directly interacts with the tumor suppressor Cav-1. We now show that rat epidermal keratinocytes (REK) that are reduced in Cx43 present features of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and are more invasive than their control counterparts, whereas overexpression of Cx43 inhibited the 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA)- and epidermal growth factor (EGF)-induced invasive properties. Carbenoxolone did not alter the inhibitory effect of Cx43 against TPA- and EGF-induced cell invasion, indicating the involvement of a gap junctional intercellular communication-independent mechanism. Interestingly, the association of Cx43 with Cav-1 was found to be reduced after TPA and EGF treatment. Accordingly, the colocalization of Cx43 with Cav-1 was diminished in cells from a human epidermal squamous cell carcinoma, as well as in sections from human keratinocyte tumors, suggesting that Cx43/Cav-1 interaction plays a protective role against keratinocyte transformation. As opposed to cells that overexpress Cx43-GFP, invasion could be induced in rat epidermal keratinocytes that overexpressed a GFP-tagged truncated mutant of Cx43 (Delta244-GFP) that we previously showed not to interact with Cav-1, as well as in cells that overexpressed Cx43-GFP but were reduced in Cav-1. Our data show that Cx43 possesses tumor-suppressive properties in keratinocytes and provide the first evidence that the Cx43/Cav-1 interaction is altered in keratinocyte transformation processes, as well as in human keratinocyte tumors, and that this association might play a role in Cx43-mediated tumor suppression.(c)2010 AACR.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/25689095> Molecular targeted therapy in the treatment of advanced stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).  Historically, patients with advanced stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) were treated with chemotherapy alone, but a therapeutic plateau has been reached. Advances in the understanding of molecular genetics have led to the recognition of multiple molecularly distinct subsets of NSCLC. This in turn has led to the development of rationally directed molecular targeted therapy, leading to improved clinical outcomes. Tumour genotyping for EGFR mutations and ALK rearrangement has meant chemotherapy is no longer given automatically as first-line treatment but reserved for when patients do not have a 'druggable' driver oncogene. In this review, we will address the current status of clinically relevant driver mutations and emerging new molecular subsets in lung adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma, and the role of targeted therapy and mechanisms of acquired resistance to targeted therapy. © 2015 Asian Pacific Society of Respirology.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/9602394> Lung cancer among Chinese females in Singapore 1968-1992: time trends, dialect group differences and implications for aetiology.  Chinese females are distinguished internationally as having relatively high lung cancer incidence rates despite a low prevalence of cigarette smoking. In Singapore, this population comprises several dialect groups which have origins in different regions in China, each with its own traditional cultural practices.An analysis of 4029 incident cases of the disease notified to the Singapore Cancer Registry for 1968-1992 was undertaken to provide some insight into important aetiologic factors among these women.The age-standardized incidence rate of lung cancer rose from 17.3 per 100,000 woman-years in 1968-1972 to 23.0 in 1978-1982 before falling off in more recent years. Age-period-cohort analysis indicated significant period and birth cohort effects, with the risk being highest for women born around 1908. Between the major dialect groups, Cantonese women had a significantly high rate compared with Hokkiens (relative risk [RR] = 2.6, 95% CI: 2.4-2.8). Histologically, there appears to be an increase in the proportion of adenocarcinomas diagnosed over this period (25.8% in 1968-1972 to 51.3% in 1988-1992).Our results suggest that traditional practices which have decreased over the years, and are more prominent among Southern Chinese, may play a part in the aetiology of lung cancer locally.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/28573230> ANTI-CANCER ACTIVITY OF   Oral squamous carcinoma is a head and neck cancer, which is one of the types of malignant cancers. Present study evaluates the anticancer activity of Ethanol extract of AT was prepared by a standard procedure of maceration. AT extract was used in different concentrations like 10, 20, 40, 80, 160, 320 and 640 μg/ml for the evaluation of its anticancer activity. Effect of AT extract on SCC9 cells were observed by microscope and cytotoxicity by 3-(4, 5-Dimethylthiazol-2-Yl)-2,5-Diphenyltetrazolium Bromide (MTT) assay. Moreover, clonogenic assay was used for the estimation of effect of AT extract on colony forming ability of SCC9 cells.Result of the study suggested that treatment with AT extract causes cytotoxicity to SCC9 cancerous cells. In addition, AT extract treatment reduces clonogenic potential of SCC9 cell and it also inhibits the proliferation of cell significantly (p<0.001) in G2/M phase.Thus, given study concludes that AT extract effectively attenuates the growth of SCC-9 cancerous cells by the virtue of its cytotoxic and anti clonogenic activity.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/7629619> The cancer-promoting effect of N-nitrosonornicotine used in combination with a subcarcinogenic dose of 4-nitroquinoline-N-oxide and 7,12-dimethylbenz (A) anthracene.  This study was conducted to determine the possible carcinogenic role of N-Nitrosonornicotine (NNN) when combined with subcarcinogenic doses of strong carcinogens dimethylbenz (a) anthracene (DMBA) and 4-nitroquinoline-N-oxide (4NQO) in the hamster cheek pouch.Eighty-five Syrian golden hamsters were randomly divided into three main groups. Group A contained 35 animals, 20 of which were treated with 0.1% DMBA followed by 4% NNN (A-I), 5 with 0.1% DMBA (A-II), 5 with 4% NNN (A-III), and 5 with mineral oil alone (A-IV). Group B contained 23 animals, 13 of which were treated with 0.5% 4NQO followed by 4% NNN (B-I), 5 with 0.5% 4NQO (B-II), and 5 animals with propyleneglycol alone (B-III). Group C contained 27 animals, 14 of which were treated with 0.1% DMBA followed by 4% NNN and 0.5% 4NQC (C-I), and 13 with 0.1% DMBA followed by 0.5% 4NQO (C-II). All animals were treated three times per week for 16 weeks. A total of 7 animals died during this period.Squamous cell carcinoma (SCCA) developed in eight animals (67%) in the group treated with all three chemicals (C-I), in four animals (33%) treated with DMBA and 4NQO (C-II), in two animals (15%) treated with 4NQO and NNN (B-I), and in two animals (11%) treated with DMBA and NNN (A-I). The difference between the number of animals that developed carcinoma in group C-I and those in groups A-I and B-I was statistically significant (P < .05) and this difference reached a significant value when group C-I and C-II were compared (P < or = .1). There was a direct relationship between the number of tumors produced in animals and the number of different chemicals applied.The results of this study indicate that NNN, when combined with subcarcinogenic doses of other strong carcinogens, is a promoter in the development of squamous cell carcinoma and that 4NQO in 0.5% concentration is a stronger carcinogen than 0.1% DMBA.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/2824387> Stimulation by EGF of the growth of EGF receptor-hyperproducing tumor cells in athymic mice.  EGF receptor-hyperproducing cells of squamous carcinoma origin were inoculated s.c. into the bilatero-abdominal regions of athymic mice and a mini-osmotic pump containing EGF was implanted on teh back. After 2 weeks the tumors formed from 5 different cell lines in the presence of EGF weighed 3 to 6 times more than those formed in the absence of EGF. The cells recovered from these tumors maintained their original characteristics such as the amplified EGF receptor gene, high numbers of EGF receptors and a sensitivity to EGF-mediated inhibition of growth in vitro. These results suggest that EGF plays an important role in promoting growth of squamous-cell carcinoma in vivo.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/9884809> Ki-67 immunostaining and prognosis in laryngeal cancer.  The expression of the antigen defined by the Ki-67 antibody in paraffin sections from 154 biopsies of laryngeal squamous cell carcinomas was examined. There was a significant difference in Ki-67 expression between the control group and the patients with cancer (P < 0.001). There was no significant difference in the Ki-67 score between the patients with recurrence and the patients with a satisfactory outcome after treatment. There was no significant correlation between the Ki-67 score and the patient's age and sex, T and N stage and site of the tumour. The survival time of patients with a Ki-67 score > 30 was shorter than patients with a Ki-67 score < or = 30 but the difference did not reach statistical significance (P = 0.055). Multivariate analysis indicated that the only important prognostic factor was the existence of lymph node metastases. We could not confirm the value of Ki-67 as a prognostic factor in laryngeal cancer. Ki-67 score may assist in differentiating malignant from benign laryngeal epithelium.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/25675954> Reasons for excision of skin tumors: a one-year prospective study in a tertiary skin cancer unit.  Biopsies and surgical excisions represent routine procedures in clinical settings dealing with skin cancer.To evaluate the impact of clinical examination, dermoscopy, reflectance confocal microscopy and digital monitoring on the decision to excise or biopsy a lesion in routine practice.Patients scheduled for biopsy or excision of a skin lesion were prospectively enrolled. The expert dermatologist was asked to select the main factor that prompted him/her to excise or biopsy the lesion.The most common reason for melanoma excision was clinical and dermoscopic morphology (70.3%), followed by dermoscopy (11.4%), monitoring (8.9%) and clinical context (8.2%). Most basal and squamous cell carcinomas were recognized both clinically and dermoscopically, while 18.6 and 15.0%, respectively, could only be detected with dermoscopic examination.Each part of the clinical examination has a contributory role in the diagnosis of melanoma and other skin cancers.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/11702114> Patterns of abnormal FDG uptake by various histological types of non-small cell lung cancer at initial staging by PET.  The aim of this study was to identify useful patterns of abnormal fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) uptake by different types of non-small cell (NSC) lung cancer and to assess their clinical implications. One hundred and three sequential patients with newly diagnosed, pathology-proven NSC lung cancer were included. FDG positron emission tomography (PET) images were acquired using a dedicated PET scanner. There were 35 squamous cell carcinomas (SQC), 17 large cell cancers (LGC), 38 adenocarcinomas (ADC), 1 bronchioloalveolar carcinoma (BAC) and 12 non-classified NSC cancers. PET images were categorized into detectable patterns of necrotic center in the primary tumor, satellite lesions (T4), hilar lymph nodes (N1), and N2, N3, and M1 lesions by visual interpretation of PET images for SQC, LGC, and ADC (n=90; BAC and non-classified NSC cancers were excluded). The PET lesions were correlated with surgical pathology and with CT findings in inoperable cases. Necrosis was more commonly present in the primary tumors of LGC (53%) and SQC (43%) than in those of ADC (26%) (P<0.0001 and <0.01, respectively). The frequencies of nodal uptake in ADC, SQC and LGC were similar (71%, 60%, and 59%, respectively). However, M1 lesions were present significantly more often in LGC (41%) and ADC (34%) than in SQC (3%) (both P<0.0001). Significantly more surgically inoperable cases were found by PET (T4, N3, M1) in ADC (50%) and LGC (41%) than in SQC (26%) (P<0.001 and <0.02, respectively). Our results suggest a wide variation of PET findings for different types of NSC lung cancer. Identification of these patterns is useful in clinical PET interpretation, in that knowledge of the most probable association between the PET patterns and the histological types will facilitate initial staging and planning of management.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/2454581> Localization of keratin mRNA in human tracheobronchial epithelium and bronchogenic carcinomas by in situ hybridization.  An in situ hybridization technique was applied to detect expression of keratin mRNAs in xenotransplanted human tracheobronchial epithelium and lung carcinomas. Tissues from eight tracheas repopulated with cells from five different noncancerous donors and 15 squamous cell carcinomas were used. Using a K6 (56 kd) human keratin cDNA (KA-1) and a K14 (50 kd) cDNA (KB-2) as probes, radiolabeled by nick-translation with 3H-dATP/TTP, the specificity and significant differences in the levels of silver grains on various epithelial lesions in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue sections were demonstrated. In situ hybridization with either KA-1 or KB-2 probe showed similar localization of silver grains in all histologic types in consecutive tissue sections. In xenotransplanted tracheobronchial epithelia, very few grains were seen over cells of simple, pseudostratified, or stratified epithelia two to three cell layers thick. Nonkeratinizing stratified hyperplastic epithelia of more than three cell layers showed uniform localization of numerous grains throughout the lesions. In contrast, epidermoid metaplasias exhibited a dense and localized pattern of grains on the basal and parabasal cell layers with a decrease in grain density toward the surface layers. Carcinoma cells from bronchogenic squamous cell carcinomas showed a higher density and more uniform localization of grains. Well-differentiated carcinoma cells contained more keratin mRNAs than moderately to poorly differentiated carcinoma cells. This evidence obtained with the KA-1 and KB-2 probes demonstrates the different localization patterns of keratin mRNAs in different epithelial lesions. In addition, the levels of mRNA expressed show a positive correlation with the degree of squamous differentiation. It was of particular interest that an ordered program of keratin mRNA expression proportional to the level of cellular differentiation was observed in epidermoid metaplasias. Both of these probes serve as keratinization markers of human tracheobronchial epithelial lesions.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/10682671> Angiogenic switch occurs late in squamous cell carcinomas of human skin.  Angiogenesis is a crucial event in carcinogenesis and its onset has been associated with premalignant tumour stages. In order to elucidate the significance of angiogenesis in different stages of epithelial skin tumours, we analysed the vessel density in ten normal skin samples, 14 actinic keratosis (AK), 12 hypertrophic AKs, and in nine early- and 16 late-stage squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs). Mean vascular density was quantitated by counting the number of CD 31-immunostained blood vessels and by morphometric assessment of stained vessel area by computer-assisted image analysis. The results from both methods were well correlated. Mean vascular density was similar in normal dermis and in AK, and only slightly elevated in hypertrophic AKs and early SCC stages (tumour thickness < 2 mm). Only late-stage SCCs infiltrating the subcutis exhibited a significant increase in vascularization. Vessel density was independent of tumour localization, degree of proliferation and inflammatory cell infiltration. Furthermore, tumour vascularization was not correlated with the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor, a major angiogenic factor, as revealed by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. The restriction of enhanced vascularization to increased tumour thickness may be a major reason for the rather low metastatic spread of cutaneous SCCs.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/20381799> Meshed capillary vessels found on narrow-band imaging without optical magnification effectively identifies colorectal neoplasia: a North American validation of the Japanese experience.  The presence of meshed capillary (MC) vessels is highly sensitive (96%) and specific (92%) for diagnosing colorectal neoplasia on colonoscopy by using narrow-band imaging (NBI) with optical magnification, which is not available in North America. However, the efficacy of NBI to identify an MC pattern without optical magnification has not been determined.To determine the diagnostic capabilities of NBI colonoscopy without optical magnification in differentiating neoplastic from non-neoplastic colorectal polyps by using the MC pattern.Retrospective comparison of prospectively collected colorectal polyp data.Large, academic medical center.This study involved 126 consecutive colorectal polyps (median size 3 mm) that were found in 52 patients (33 men) with a median age of 59.5 years.All lesions identified by white-light colonoscopy were prospectively diagnosed in real-time by using the MC pattern as determined on high-definition NBI, with 1.5x zoom but without true optical magnification, and then endoscopically excised. Surgical pathology was used as the criterion standard.Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and accuracy of identifying neoplastic polyps were calculated.NBI without optical magnification was found to have a sensitivity of 93%, specificity of 88%, positive predictive value of 90%, negative predictive value of 91%, and diagnostic accuracy of 91% when all polyp sizes were considered. For lesions < or =5 mm, sensitivity was 87%, specificity was 93%, positive predictive value was 89%, negative predictive value was 91%, and diagnostic accuracy was 90%.Single-center, single-endoscopist experience.Use of the MC pattern on NBI colonoscopy without optical magnification effectively distinguishes neoplastic from non-neoplastic colorectal polyps. NBI colonoscopy without optical magnification for neoplastic polyp diagnosis appears to be comparable with NBI with optical magnification when the MC pattern is used. A large, prospective trial is needed for further validation.Copyright  2010 American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy. Published by Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/3609732> Silence as resistance to medical intervention.  A group of 47 individuals initially silent about their physical symptoms and/or dysfunction were studied after they finally had come to medical attention. They were then interviewed, using the associative anamnesis technique, to evaluate the psychologic aspects of their silence. It was found to be a key element in the defensive complex directed against intense neurotic feelings activated by the patient's current physical condition. The tendency toward silence appeared to have been reinforced by emotionally traumatic experiences involving physical illness or injuries in early life. Also found associated with silence were such different factors as a series of ostrich-like denying rationalizations, a fanatic commitment to cultist beliefs, a conviction that emotional conflict is the primary cause of organic illness, and motivations linked to retention of power in reality situations. Clinical examples drawn from these categories are given. Means of increasing the awareness that such silence exists and methods of dealing with it are discussed.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/20044599> Galectin-8 up-regulation during hypopharyngeal and laryngeal tumor progression and comparison with galectin-1, -3 and -7.  To define specific staining patterns for the adhesion/growth-regulatory lectin tandem-repeat-type galectin-8 in hypopharyngeal and laryngeal tumor progression and relate these parameters to galectins 1, 3 and 7 in the quest to explore the galectin network.The level of expression of galectin-8 was determined immunohistochemically in a series of 18 and 16 cases of tumor-free epithelium, 24 and 10 cases of low-grade dysplasia, 22 and 15 cases of high-grade dysplasia located in peri-tumoral area of 74 and 37 hypopharyngeal and laryngeal carcinomas.Marked upregulation in galectin-8 staining intensity and immunopositive area in malignancy versus dysplasia was seen in hypopharyngeal cancer (p<10(-6)), in laryngeal cancer for labeling index and high-grade dysplasia/carcinoma (p<10(-6)). No correlation to recurrence was delineated.The presented data revealed a divergence within the galectin-1, -3, -7 and -8 network during tumor progression.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/21979598> Diagnostic implications of L1, p16, and Ki-67 proteins and HPV DNA in low-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia.  The expressions of p16, Ki-67, and L1 proteins and human papillomavirus DNA were investigated using polymerase chain reaction (HPV/PCR) and catalyzed signal-amplified colorimetric DNA in situ hybridization (CSAC/ISH) as potential molecular markers for the diagnosis and transforming potential of low cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN1). Ki-67 and p16 protein expression increased linearly from control cases to more dysplastic cases (CIN1, CIN2, and CIN3), peaking in squamous cell carcinoma cases (P<0.05). In contrast, L1 expression was inversely correlated with malignant transformation. Patients with CIN1 were divided into 4 groups: L1p16, L1p16, L1p16, and L1p16, and the immunohistochemical results were combined with HPV/PCR, L1/PCR, and high-risk E6/E7 genome and CSAC/ISH data. Malignant transformation correlated with L1p16 patients (100% of CIN2, CIN3, and squamous cell carcinoma cases) and was evident in approximately 23% of CIN1 cases. In addition, the presence of HPV/DNA was evident in 52% of CIN1 cases, and within the L1p16 group. In 4 of 7 cases, the high-risk E6/E7 HPV genome was present and in 1 case it was integrated into the host DNA, as confirmed using CSAC/ISH. In patients with CIN1, investigating the presence of HPV/DNA using PCR and the presence of the high-risk E6/E7 genome is necessary to distinguish high-risk oncogenic patient groups from low-risk groups. This study highlights the importance of combining immunohistochemical analysis with HPV/PCR and CSAC/ISH to identify patients with CIN1 with a risk of neoplastic progression.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/18449912> Improved local control by surgery and paclitaxel-based chemoradiation for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma: results of a retrospective non-randomized study.  To investigate the impact of using paclitaxel in chemoradiation on locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) treated with or without surgery.Of 127 patients with AJCC stages II-III esophageal SCC undergoing definitive chemoradiation (DefCRT, n = 44) or neoadjuvant chemoradiation plus surgery (NeoCRT + S, n = 83), 57 received chemotherapy with paclitaxel and cisplatin (TP), and 70 received 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin (PF). Three-year local progression-free survival (LPFS), distant metastasis-free survival, overall survival, and prognostic factors were retrospectively analyzed.The median survival was 30 months. Pathological complete response rate was 41% and 27% with TP and PF, respectively (P = 0.19). NeoCRT + S achieved significantly higher LPFS than DefCRT (71% vs. 39%, P < 0.001). Patients receiving TP had significantly higher LPFS than PF (74% vs. 48%, P = 0.04). Local control was similar between DefCRT with TP and NeoCRT + S. Distant metastasis-free survival and overall survival were not different between treatment modalities or chemotherapy regimens. In multivariate analysis, surgery (HR 0.30, P < 0.001), TP regimen (HR 0.38, P = 0.007), and mediastinal lymphadenopathy (HR 2.37, P = 0.008) were independent factors for LPFS.Both surgery and the use of paclitaxel-based chemoradiation may improve local disease control. Future randomized trials should integrate paclitaxel into definitive chemoradiation.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/8291856> Microlaryngoscopic surgery for T1 glottic lesions: a cost-effective option.  Excision of squamous cell carcinoma of the vocal cord using microlaryngoscopy (ML) with or without laser is a cost-effective treatment option in highly selected patients. A retrospective review of 50 cases of invasive and microinvasive squamous cell carcinoma demonstrated a failure rate of 8% (4 patients), all of whom were successfully salvaged by hemilaryngectomy (1 patient) or irradiation (3 patients). Other treatment options for T1 glottic lesions include hemilaryngectomy or radiotherapy, yielding similar cure rates of 95% and 67% to 93%, respectively. Investigation of the potential savings by extrapolating 1992 health care costs into the treatment options for T1 glottic carcinoma resulted in costs of $12,956 per patient for ML, while hemilaryngectomy averaged $35,616 per patient and radiotherapy netted costs of $32,588 per patient. Extrapolating these costs to a theoretic group of 100 patients, ML provided savings of 2.4 million dollars when compared to the other treatment modalities. In selected patients, ML for T1 glottic cancer provides an effective therapeutic modality suited to our cost-conscious environment.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/15007247> Definitive and neoadjuvant radiochemotherapy of squamous cell carcinoma of the oesophagus.  In cases of advanced carcinoma of the oesophagus with no metastatic spread, a concurrent radiochemotherapy can improve the patient's prognosis in comparison to radiotherapy alone. This approach increases the treatment-related toxicity, in particular haematological side effects. Therefore therapy must be adapted to the general condition of the patient, demanding an intensive supportive treatment and monitoring of the patient. At present the optimal radiation dose and the role of brachytherapy for the reduction of the still high rate of local recurrences has not been determined. The value of neoadjuvant radiochemotherapy for operable or inoperable tumours is unclear. Meta-analyses did show an improvement of the prognosis, however most of the randomised studies found improvement only for the recurrence rate but not for survival. The reasons for this are numerous; however, the high postoperative lethality after radiochemotherapy in some studies is conspicuous. Conversely, the initial results of randomised studies show that operative measures could possibly be forgone if a complete remission is achieved by concurrent radiochemotherapy. Nevertheless, this approach must also be regarded critically, as the local recurrence rate after radiochemotherapy alone is high and long-term results are not available.Copyright 2004 S. Karger GmbH, Freiburg
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/2989577> [Host factors in lung cancer patients--with reference to family and past histories].  An analysis of cigarette smoking habits and family and past histories of 494 lung cancer patients was undertaken to determine whether host factors in such patients could be related to cancer. In men, 35.8% of the patients with squamous cell carcinoma had family histories of cancer, which is significantly higher than the ratio in control subjects (P less than 0.05). In women, 58.3% of the patients with bronchoalveolar cell carcinoma had family histories of cancer, and, in six out of eight of them, their parents had had the disease. As for past histories, 7.7% of the women with lung cancer had undergone surgery ovarian tumor. These results suggest that familial (hereditary) factors and predisposition play a role in the etiology of lung cancer.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/16681741> Sentinel node identification in cervical cancer patients undergoing transperitoneal radical hysterectomy: a study of 100 cases.  We investigated the feasibility of sentinel lymph node (SN) identification using radioisotopic lymphatic mapping with technetium-99m-labeled nanocolloid and blue-dye injection in 100 patients with early cervical cancer (FIGO stage IB1 in 58, IB2 in 18, and IIA in 24) undergoing radical hysterectomy with pelvic lymphadenectomy. At least one SN was found in 84% on one side and in 66% on both sides. The sentinel detection rates according to the stages were as follows: 96.6% in IB1, 66.7% in IB2, and 62.5% in IIA with at least one SN on one side, and 86.2% in IB1, 38.9% in IB2, and 37.5% in IIA with at least one SN on both sides. Successful identification of at least one SN was less likely in patients with tumors >2 cm (54% of SN) compared with those with tumors </=2 cm (96% of SN). In 15/22 patients, the SNs were the only lymph nodes that were tumor positive. The false-negative rate for the SN procedure was 3% (3/100). In all false-negative SNs, the primary cervical tumor was above 2 cm and there was an isthmus infiltration. SN detection had 86.4% sensitivity (19/22), 100% specificity (66/66), and 95.5% negative predictive value (63/68). The sentinel node detection rate is relatively high and depends on the tumor size and FIGO stage.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/3757419> Combined radiotherapy and chemotherapy for advanced carcinoma of the cervix.  Until recently the use of cytotoxic drugs in the treatment of squamous carcinoma of the cervix has been limited to patients with local recurrence after primary therapy or with distant metastases. The effectiveness of some cytotoxic drugs, especially cisplatin, in producing tumour regression in this group of patients with a poor prognosis, has encouraged the use of chemotherapy at an earlier stage of the disease process. Since 1979 patients with FIGO IIb squamous carcinoma of the cervix extending more than half-way to the pelvic side-wall and Stages III and IV disease have been treated with a combination of cisplatin or methotrexate and radiotherapy. The complete remission rate of Stage III tumours was 89% with a local recurrence rate of only 8%. In patients with advanced Stage IIb disease only 44% achieved complete remission and three patients with Stage IV disease failed to respond. The projected 5-year survival rate is 66% for patients with Stage III disease and 49% for all patients. The results of this combined treatment are presented and discussed and the suggestion made that chemotherapy combined with radiotherapy can be safely used to advantage in patients at high risk of local relapse.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/20873398> Percutaneous computed tomography/ultrasonography-guided permanent iodine-125 implantation as salvage therapy for recurrent squamous cell cancers of head and neck.  To assess the feasibility, efficacy, and morbidity of permanent percutaneous 125I seed implantation under computed tomography (CT)/ultrasonography guidance for recurrent squamous cell carcinomas of head and neck.Twenty-five patients underwent 125I seed implantation under CT or ultrasonography guidance. Postoperative dosimetry was routinely performed for all the patients. The actuarial D90 of the implanted 125I seeds ranged from 90 Gy to 160 Gy (median: 130 Gy). The activity of 125I seed ranged from 0.35 mCi to 0.8 mCi (median: 0.6 mCi). The total number of seeds implanted ranged from 3 to 61 (median: 22). The follow-up period ranged from 3 to 40 months (median: 8 months).The median local disease-free progression was 12 months (95% CI, 4.8-19.2), and the 1- and 2-year local tumor control rates were 48.7% and 39.9%, respectively. The 1- and 2-year survival rates were 42.5% and 28.3%, respectively (median: 11 months) (95% CI, 8.2-13.8). Of the 25 patients, 6 (24%) died of local recurrence and 5 (20%) died of metastases; 2 patients showed recurrences at 3 and 8 months after seed implantation and subsequently died of pneumonia. One patient died of heart disease. One developed ulceration with tumor progression. Blood vessel damage and neuropathy were not observed.The high local tumor control rates, minimal invasion, and low morbidity suggest that percutaneous 125I seed implantation is a feasible and safe salvage for patients with recurrent squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/10458687> p21Waf1/Cip1 expression is a prognostic marker in curatively resected esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, but not p27Kip1, p53, or Rb.  p21Waf1/Cip1 (p21), p27Kip1 (p27), p53, and Rb play critical roles in cell cycle regulation and may influence the clinical behavior of tumors. We examined whether their expression is useful to predict survival of patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESC).Expression of p21, p27, p53, and Rb was studied by the immunohistochemical method in specimens from 62 patients with curatively resected ESC tumors and scored by a computerized image analysis system.The median expression scores of p21, p27, p53, and Rb (14, 12, 27, and 50, respectively) were used as cut-off points to define low and high expression groups for each protein. The 5-year survival rate for the high p21 expression group was 68%; that for the low expression group was 31% (P = .0062). p27, p53, and Rb were not correlated with overall survival. When patients were categorized into four groups based on p21 expression level and lymph node involvement (pN), the survival curves were significantly different (P = .0017). Thus, patients without lymph node involvement but with low p21 expression had survival similar to that of patients with lymph node involvement and high p21 expression. Multivariate analysis showed that age (P = .0102), lymph node involvement (P = .0076), and p21 (P = .0276) were independent prognostic factors.Expression of p21 is an independent prognostic factor in curatively resected ESC. Definition of new subgroups of patients based on p21 expression may help to enhance the stratification of stage.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/1372818> The role of radiotherapy in carcinoma of the thoracic oesophagus: an audit of the Mount Vernon experience 1980-1989.  All 244 patients with carcinoma of the thoracic oesophagus registered at the Mount Vernon Centre for Cancer Treatment during the decade from 1 January 1980 to 31 December 1989 have been audited. We have made a detailed analysis of 110 (45%) with localized disease considered unsuitable for surgery, who completed treatment solely by radiotherapy. The median survival of this group of patients was 8.2 months (range 0.2-54 months). Dysphagia was improved by radiotherapy in 77.3% of cases, the median duration of relief was 24 weeks (range 0-208 weeks) and was maintained until death in 40%. Life table analysis showed that radical compared with less than radical regimens of radiotherapy gave significantly superior relief of dysphagia. This result is unlikely to be due to case selection.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/2986559> [Experience with induced hypertension chemotherapy for lung cancer].  Induced hypertension chemotherapy (IHC) using angiotensin II was applied for patients with lung cancer who had not been treated previously, and the results compared with those of preceding conventional chemotherapy as a sequential control. Twenty-nine patients with non-small cell lung cancer (non-SCLC) were treated with MTX and MMC. Response rate among evaluable cases was 23.1% (3/13) for conventional chemotherapy and 18.2% (2/11) for IHC. Twenty-eight patients with small cell lung cancer (SCLC) were treated with VCR, CPA and ACNU. Among evaluable cases, both chemotherapy groups with and without IHC showed the same response rate, 66.7% (8/12). With respect to response rate, there were no differences between conventional chemotherapy and IHC for non-SCLC or SCLC.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/24511049> Prevalence and expression of human papillomavirus in 53 patients with oral tongue squamous cell carcinoma.  Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection has been considered a potential risk factor for the development of oral tongue squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). The purpose of the present study was to investigate HPV infection and high-risk HPV E6/E7 mRNA expression in SCC of the oral tongue in 53 Greek patients.Fifty-three biopsies were collected from patients with SCC of the oral tongue and tested for HPV DNA and E6/E7 mRNA expression.The overall prevalence of HPV DNA was 11.3% (6/53), while high-risk HPV DNA was found in 7.5% (4/53) of SCC of the oral tongue. E6/E7 mRNA expression was observed in 9.4% (5/53) samples examined. HPV 16 was the commonest genotype identified by both DNA and RNA assays. A total of 28.3% (15/53) of the patients were non-smokers and non-drinkers. HPV infection was strongly associated with abstinence from tobacco and alcohol (p=0.013).The presence of high-risk HPV E6/E7 mRNA expression suggests that HPV may be implicated in the pathogenesis of SCC of the oral tongue.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/24450492> Chemopreventive effect of Mentha piperita on dimethylbenz[a]anthracene and formaldehyde-induced tongue carcinogenesis in mice (histological and immunohistochemical study).  Cancer chemoprevention is defined as the use of chemicals or dietary components to block, inhibit, or reverse the development of cancer in normal or pre-neoplastic tissue. Mentha extract (ME) has antioxidant and antiperoxidant properties. This study was held to investigate the protective and anticancer effect of Mentha leaves aqueous extract on oral epithelium of mice tongues.A total of 80 Egyptian albino mice were divided into three groups. Group I served as control (not subjected to any kind of treatment), and groups II and III were subjected to two-stage chemical carcinogenesis through topical application of dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA) followed by formaldehyde on dorsal and ventral surfaces of tongues for 9 weeks. Mentha leaves extract was administrated to group III at the same time of cancer induction. Histological changes were assessed in H&E sections at 3-week intervals. The anticarcinogenic effect of Mentha piperita was tested using immunostain with anticaspase antibody.The oral administration of ME reduced the appearance of dysplastic cellular changes with 61% and inhibited tumor incidence with 100%. Group I showed moderate-to-strong cytoplasmic caspase expression. At 6-week interval, group II showed weak-to-moderate caspase expression, while sections from group III showed moderate-to-strong caspase expression. High significant statistical difference in the total score of caspase 3 expression was found between specimens obtained from animals sacrificed at 6 weeks in groups I, II, and III (P = 0.001**).Our study demonstrated that Mentha piperita has inhibited the initiation and promotion of oral dysplastic lesions.© 2014 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/3357252> [An immunoradiometric assay of serum SCC antigen using a monoclonal antibody--a comparison with the conventional double antibody method].  The serum level of the squamous cell carcinoma-related antigen (SCC-Ag) has been measured by a new immunoradiometric assay (IRMA) method that has been recently developed by using a monoclonal antibody, and compared with the results obtained by the conventional double-antibody method using a polyclonal antibody. Both methods gave essentially the same results, that the serum SCC-Ag level was high in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of various organs when compared with other types of lung cancer or benign diseases. However, the percentages of the serum SCC-Ag level over the normal range were found to be higher by the new IRMA method than by the conventional method. This may be due to the improvement in sensitivity and accuracy of this newer method of assay, which also results in a considerable decrease in the normal range estimated in healthy subjects. Therefore, it has been concluded that this new method is more suitable than the conventional method for an early diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma in all organs.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/24091491> Use of a sternocleidomastoid myocutaneous flap based on the sternocleidomastoid branch of the superior thyroid artery to reconstruct extensive cheek defects.  Reconstruction of head and neck defects has always been challenging due to functional and cosmetic concerns. Although sternocleidomastoid (SCM) flaps have been used for many head and neck defects, use of an SCM flap to reconstruct a cheek defect based only on the superior thyroid artery has not been reported previously.The case of a 40-year-old farmer with a large full-thickness cheek squamous cell carcinoma is reported. An SCM myocutaneous flap based on the SCM branch of the superior thyroid artery was used.An SCM myocutaneous flap is a valuable option for head and neck reconstructions with reasonable aesthetic results. For properly selected cases, this flap obviates the need to use the pectoralis major or other more distant flaps.This journal requires that authors assign a level of evidence to each article. For a full description of these Evidence-Based Medicine ratings, please refer to the Table of Contents or the online Instructions to Authors www.springer.com/00266 .
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/25913070> IAEA-HypoX. A randomized multicenter study of the hypoxic radiosensitizer nimorazole concomitant with accelerated radiotherapy in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.  To test the hypothesis that radiotherapy (RT) of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) can be improved by hypoxic modification using nimorazole (NIM) in association with accelerated fractionation.The protocol was activated in March 2012 as an international multicenter randomized trial in patients with HNSCC. Tumors were treated to a dose of 66-70Gy, 33-35 fractions, 6 fractions per week. NIM was administered in a dose of 1.2gperm(2), 90min before the first daily RT fraction. The primary endpoint was loco-regional failure. The trial was closed prematurely by June 2014 due to poor recruitment. An associated quality assurance program was performed to ensure the consistency of RT with the protocol guidelines.The trial was dimensioned to include 600 patients in 3years, but only 104 patients were randomized between March 2012 and May 2014 due to the inability to involve three major centers and the insufficient recruitment rate from the other participating centers. Twenty patients from two centers had to be excluded from the analysis due to the unavailability of the follow-up data. Among the remaining 84 patients, 82 patients were evaluable (39 and 43 patients in the RT+NIM and the RT-alone arms, respectively). The treatment compliance was good with only six patients not completing the full planned RT course, and 31 patients (79%) out of 39 allocated for NIM, achieving at least 90% of the prescribed drug dose. At the time of evaluation, 40 patients had failed to achieve persistent loco-regional tumor control, and a total of 45 patients had died. The use of NIM improved the loco-regional tumor control with an 18month post-randomization cumulative failure rate of 33% versus 51% in the control arm, yielding a risk difference of 18% (CI -3% to 39%; P=0.10). The corresponding values for overall death was 43% versus 62%, yielding a risk difference of 19% (CI -3% to 42%; P=0.10). Sixteen patients, out of 55 patients analyzed for hypoxic gene expression, were classified as having more hypoxic tumors. Such patients, if treated with RT alone, had a higher loco-regional tumor failure rate as compared to the rest of the patients with known hypoxic status (P=0.05).Although the trial was incomplete and suffered from a small number of patients, the results suggested an improvement in loco-regional tumor control and overall survival in patients with advanced HNSCC given the hypoxic modifier NIM in addition to accelerated fractionation RT. However, the trial also revealed that conducting multicenter and multinational study combining drug and RT in developing countries may suffer from uncontrolled and unsolvable problems.Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/2472883> Phase I trial of N-(phosphonacetyl)-L-aspartate, methotrexate, and 5-fluorouracil with leucovorin rescue in patients with advanced cancer.  Based on an animal model to improve the antitumor activity of 5-fluorouracil (FUra), a Phase I study of N-(phosphonacetyl)-L-aspartate, methotrexate, FUra, and leucovorin was conducted on 44 patients. Methotrexate was given in an intermediate dose (250 mg/m2) to overcome potential drug resistance, and N-(phosphonacetyl)-L-aspartate was given at a low dose (250 mg/m2) in order to allow escalation of FUra to toxicity. These two drugs were given 24 h before FUra to enhance maximal incorporation of FUra into RNA. Two schedules of administration were used; one every other week and one weekly for 2 weeks. The every other week schedule was well tolerated, with minimal gastrointestinal and hematological toxicity. However, the weekly for 2 weeks schedule was more toxic with increased mucositis, diarrhea requiring therapy, and decreased performance status of 20% in 4 of 6 patients. There were no responders in the every other week schedule. There was one partial response and three patients with stable disease in four evaluable patients on the weekly for 2 weeks schedule. At 24 h post-N-(phosphonacetyl)-L-aspartate-methotrexate treatment, PRPP levels were doubled in bone marrow biopsies, and increased 2.5- to 25-fold in tumor biopsies. We have currently added uridine rescue to this combination with the hope of further escalating the dose of FUra.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/23552792> [Salivary duct carcinoma: report of 6 cases and review of the literature].  To summarize the clinicopathologic characteristics, treatment and prognosis of salivary duct carcinoma.Six cases of salivary duct carcinoma treated in our hospital were reported. And the literatures were reviewed. All cases were proved by operation and pathology. The clinical characteristics, histological features, therapeutic method and prognosis were analyzed.Salivary duct carcinoma predominantly influenced old male patients and mainly occurred in the parotid gland. Physical examination revealed a firm, immobile and poorly defined mass accompanied by nerve infiltrated symptom. The histological appearance was characterized by solid cell nests with ductal structures and central comedonecrosis. Treatment required extensive resection and radical neck dissection with postoperative radiotherapy. The clinical course was marked by development of both local disease recurrence as well as cervical lymph node and distant metastasis.Salivary duct carcinoma is a rare malignant salivary tumour with poor prognosis. Extensive resection is the key to improve the survival rate.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/17113222> p16(INK4a) promoter hypermethylation in oral scrapings of oral squamous cell carcinoma risk patients.  Aberrant promoter hypermethylation is common in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) and may be useful as a marker for cancer cells. The aim of our study was to assess whether the detection of hypermethylation of the promoter region of p16(INK4a) in oral cytological samples could be a marker in patients with risk of developing an OSCC. Hypermethylation was detected in 20% (29/145) of the cases analyzed. These findings provide further evidence that the inactivation of p16(INK4a), due to methylation, is an early event in the carcinogenic pathway of OSCC.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/20801492> Squamous cell carcinoma within a horseshoe kidney with associated renal stones detected by computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging.  We describe a 69-year-old man who came to our observation with a history of persistent left flank abdominal pain, fever for several weeks, and a previous history of passing renal stones. Radiological examinations with computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging revealed a solid mass within the left side of a horseshoe kidney, with associated large renal stones. The patient subsequently underwent partial left nephrectomy. The final diagnosis was consistent with squamous cell carcinoma arising in a horseshoe kidney, with associated renal stones.Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/17955256> Boron neutron capture therapy (BNCT) for the treatment of spontaneous nasal planum squamous cell carcinoma in felines.  Recently, Boron neutron capture therapy (BNCT) was successfully applied to treat experimental squamous cell carcinomas (SCC) of the hamster cheek pouch mucosa, with no damage to normal tissue. It was also shown that treating spontaneous nasal planum SCC in terminal feline patients with low dose BNCT is safe and feasible. In an extension of this work, the present study aimed at evaluation of the response of tumor and dose-limiting normal tissues to potentially therapeutic BNCT doses. Biodistribution studies with (10)B-boronophenylalanine (BPA enriched in (10)B) as a (10)B carrier were performed on three felines that showed advanced nasal planum SCC without any standard therapeutic option. Following the biodistribution studies, BNCT mediated by (10)BPA was done using the thermalized epithermal neutron beam at the RA-6 Nuclear Reactor. Follow-up included clinical evaluation, assessment of macroscopic tumor and normal tissue response and biopsies for histopathological analysis. The treated animals did not show any apparent radiation-induced toxicity. All three animals exhibited partial tumor control and an improvement in clinical condition. Enhanced therapeutic efficacy was associated with a high (10)B content of the tumor and a small tumor size. BNCT is therefore believed to be potentially effective in the treatment of spontaneous SCC. However, improvement in targeting (10)B into all tumor cells and delivering a sufficient dose at a greater depth are still required for the treatment of deep-seated, large tumors. Future studies are needed to evaluate the potential efficacy of the dual mode cellular (e.g. BPA-BNCT) and vascular (e.g. GB-10-BNCT) targeting protocol in a preclinical scenario, employing combinations of (10)B compounds with different properties and complementary uptake mechanisms.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/27103359> High-grade anal intraepithelial neoplasia: Progression to invasive cancer is not a certainty.  The incidences of high-grade anal intraepithelial neoplasia (HSIL) and superficially invasive squamous cell carcinomas (SISCCA) related to human papillomavirus (HPV) have increased. These lesions can progress to invasive anal cancer. The aim of the study was to assess the clinical outcome with a special focus on the healing rate.Forty-six consecutive patients (M/F: 35/11; HIV+: 30) with histologically proven HSIL lesions (N=41) or SISCCA (N=5) were enrolled in a follow-up survey.Of the 46 patients, 40 were treated by excision (n=9), electrocoagulation (n=13), topical treatment (n=2) or combined strategies (n=16). After a mean follow-up of 35 (27-43) months, only one patient progressed to an invasive cancer. Regression and healing were observed in 14 (30%) and 15 (33%) patients. The cumulative probabilities of healing were 14%, 49% and 74% after 1, 3 and 5 years. None of the current smokers healed. Heterosexual patients, sexual abstinence, patients older than 44 years old, non-smokers, patients without any past history of condyloma and those with less than 2 high-risk HPVs at baseline were more likely to heal.Progression to invasive cancer is a rare event. Large, prospective cohort studies are needed to plan coherent strategies for both follow-up and treatment.Copyright © 2016 Editrice Gastroenterologica Italiana S.r.l. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/2352222> Anomaly of the radial artery encountered during elevation of the radial forearm flap.  Anomalies of the radial artery do occur although they are uncommon. During elevation of a radial forearm flap, one of these unusual anomalies was encountered. This anatomic variation located at the wrist level, might result in a falsely positive Allen's test.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/18265646> Experimental evidence for the efficacy of combined therapy of CPT-11 and hyperthermia for squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus.  The aim of the current study was to show an anti-tumor effect for esophageal squamous carcinoma cells derived from a combination of hyperthermia and CPT-11, which would ultimately lead to the clinical usage of this therapeutic modality for patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus.Survival fraction of esophageal squamous carcinoma cells after administrating SN-38, active metabolite of CPT-11, and combination of hyperthermia and SN-38 was compared using data measured by MTT assay.Reduction of cell survival fraction derived by simultaneous induction of hyperthermia and SN-38, in many combinations of the temperature and charging period, was significantly greater than that acquired by SN-38 alone.Combination of hyperthermia and CPT-11 can exert a synergic anti-tumor efficacy for SCC of the esophagus.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/8667988> Prognostic value of EGFR and TGF-alpha in early laryngeal cancer treated with radiotherapy.  The purpose of this study was to determine the overexpression of both epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha) (a ligand of EGFR) in early laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma. In addition, we attempted to evaluate the prognostic values of our findings. Expression of EGFR and TGF-alpha in tumor tissue was examined immunohistochemically in 68 patients who had been treated with radiotherapy for early laryngeal cancer. Overexpression of the two factors was noted in 42.6% and 55.9%, respectively. No significant differences due to age, tumor size, and location or grade of cancer tissues were seen. Higher survival rates, found in patients with EGFR (-) and TGF-alpha (-) tumors as compared with those with EGFR (+) and TGF-alpha (+) (97.4%, 100% and 86.2%, 86.8%, respectively), were not statistically significant. The recurrence rates were similar between EGFR (+) and EGFR (-) (37.9% and 35.9%, respectively). However, the recurrence rate in patients with TGF-alpha (+) was significantly higher (57.9%) than in those with TGF-alpha (-) (10%; P<.01). Therefore overexpression of TGF-alpha may be an important indicator for recurrence in patients with early laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma treated by irradiation.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/21968688> Berberine prevents 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene-induced hamster buccal pouch carcinogenesis:  a biochemical approach.  Chemoprevention, a novel and useful approach in experimental oncology, deals with the prevention, suppression, or inhibition of carcinogenesis using natural or synthetic entities. This study evaluated the chemopreventive potential of berberine on 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA)-induced hamster buccal pouch carcinogenesis. Oral squamous cell carcinoma was developed in the buccal pouch of golden Syrian hamsters by painting with 0.5% DMBA in liquid paraffin three times a week for 14 weeks. Tumor incidence, tumor volume, tumor burden, phase I and phase II carcinogen detoxification agents, lipid peroxidation, antioxidant status, and histopathological changes were assessed in hamsters treated with DMBA alone and in DMBA+berberine-treated animals. Hundred percent tumor incidences with an imbalance in carcinogen-metabolizing enzymes and cellular redox status were observed in hamsters treated with DMBA alone. Oral administration of berberine at a dose of 75 mg/kg body weight (bw) to DMBA-treated hamsters completely prevented tumor incidence and restored the status of the above-mentioned biochemical markers. Berberine, a traditional drug from Southeast Asia, shows promising chemopreventive efficacy in hamster buccal pouch carcinogenesis.
<doc id=SquamousCellCancer/1698912> Palliative radiotherapy of cerebral metastasis from lung cancer.  Cerebral metastasis is a common manifestation of lung cancer. Presenting signs and symptoms are often grave, and consequently often result in patients being debilitated for the rest of their lives. Radiotherapy has been used to treat a majority of these cases, and is considered as the treatment of choice. At Mackay Memorial Hospital, we collected from 1982 to 1985, the records of 42 lung cancer patients with brain metastasis. All the cases had a histological diagnosis of primary lung cancer; most of them were squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma; only two cases were small cell carcinoma. The diagnosis of brain metastasis was established by computed tomographic scans of the brain and radioisotopic brain scans. Of the 42 cases, 22 received palliative radiotherapy from a cobalt-60 teletherapy machine to the whole brain for a total dose of 30 Gray (Gy) in 10-15 fractions over a time span of 2 to 3 weeks, while the remaining patients only received medical treatment (e.g. cranial decompression with mannitol, steroids, etc.). Most of the patients have already died. In our study, those who received radiotherapy attained considerable palliation of their symptoms and signs, including improvement of their general performance status and neurological function. Although the treatment did not prolong the patient's survival, it did decrease considerably the disability caused by the metastatic disease.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/8693875> Endoscopic treatment of biliary ascariasis. Report of a case.  Ascaris lumbricoides is the most common intestinal parasite to infect humans. The incidence of ascariasis is increasing in our regions, due to world travel and population migration. In one third of cases, the worm can enter the bile duct and cause cholangitis or biliary colics. Diagnosis and treatment of ascariasis are discussed. Endoscopic retrograde cholangio-pancreaticography (ERCP) with endoscopic extraction of the worm, using a Dormia basket, is a safe and effective procedure for the diagnosis and treatment of biliary ascariasis. This technique serves as an effective alternative for surgery.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/17389924> Rich-club phenomenon in the interactome of P. falciparum--artifact or signature of a parasitic life style?  Recent advances have provided a first experimental protein interaction map of the human malaria parasite P. falciparum, which appears to be remotely related to interactomes of other eukaryotes. Here, we present a comparative topological analysis of this experimentally determined web with a network of conserved interactions between proteins in S. cerevisiae, C. elegans and D. melanogaster that have an ortholog in Plasmodium. Focusing on experimental interactions, we find a significant presence of a rich-club, a topological characteristic that features an oligarchy of highly connected proteins being intertwined with one another. In complete contrast, the network of interologs and particularly the web of evolutionary-conserved interactions in P. falciparum lack this feature. This observation prompts the question of whether this result points to a topological signature of the parasite's biology, since experimentally obtained interactions widely cover parasite-specific functions. Significantly, hub proteins that appear in such an oligarchy revolve around invasion functions, shaping an island of parasite-specific activities in a sea of evolutionary inherited interactions. This presence of a biologically unprecedented network feature in the human malaria parasite might be an artifact of the quality and the methods to obtain interaction data in this organism. Yet, the observation that rich-club proteins have distinctive and statistically significant functions that revolve around parasite-specific activities point to a topological signature of a parasitic life style.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/12753637> [Presence of Angiostrongylus cantonensis in Haiti].  In the West Indies Angiostrongylus cantonensis was found first in Cuba in 1973, then in Puerto Rico (1986), in the Dominican Republic (1992) and recently in Jamaica (2002). Concurrently, the presence of the parasite was detected in the Bahamas and in New Orleans (LA, USA) in 1990. To assess the occurrence of A. cantonensis in Haiti, we investigated a number of rats in Port-au-Prince in 2002. Preliminary results among 23 captured and examined rats show that 75% (three of four) Rattus norvegicus and 21% (four of 19) R. rattus harboured A. cantonensis in their cardiopulmonary systems. Haiti is, for the first time, recognized as a new enzootic area for A. cantonensis in the Caribbean. This emerging zoonosis should be considered as a new public health hazard in Haiti.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/19184417> Detection and characterization of a sialoglycosylated bacterial ABC-type phosphate transporter protein from patients with visceral leishmaniasis.  We report the discovery and characterization of a glycosylated bacterial ABC-type phosphate transporter isolated from the peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) fraction of patients with visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Three disease-associated 9-O-acetylated sialoglycoproteins (9-O-AcSGPs) of 19, 56 and 65 kDa, respectively, had been identified and their purity, apparent mass and pI established by SDS-PAGE and isoelectric focusing. Western blot analyses showed that the 9-O-acetylated sialic acid is linked via alpha2-->6 linkage to a subterminal N-acetylgalactosamine. For the 56 kDa protein, N- as well as O-glycosylations were demonstrated by specific glycosidase treatment and found to account for more than 9 kDa of the protein mass. The presence of sialic acids was further confirmed through thin layer chromatography, fluorimetric HPLC and electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry. The protein was identified by mass spectrometry and de novo sequencing of five tryptic fragments as a periplasmic ABC-type phosphate transporter of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The amino acid sequences of the assigned peptides had 83-100% identity with the NCBI entry for a Pseudomonas transporter protein. Based on the recently reported X-ray structure of a human phosphate-binding protein, we predicted a 3D structural model for the 56 kDa protein using homology and threading methods. The most probable N- and O-glycosylation sites were identified by combinations of sequence motif-searching bioinformatics tools, solvent accessibility calculations, structural environment analyses and mass spectrometric data. This is the first reported glycosylation as well as sialylation of the periplasmic component of an ABC-type phosphate transporter protein and of one of few identified bacterial glycoproteins.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/19737788> Genetics and the general physician: insights, applications and future challenges.  Scientific and technological advances in our understanding of the nature and consequences of human genetic variation are now allowing genetic determinants of susceptibility to common multifactorial diseases to be defined, as well as our individual response to therapy. I review how genome-wide association studies are robustly identifying new disease susceptibility loci, providing insights into disease pathogenesis and potential targets for drug therapy. Some of the remarkable advances being made using current genetic approaches in Crohn's disease, coronary artery disease and atrial fibrillation are described, together with examples from malaria, HIV/AIDS, asthma, prostate cancer and venous thrombosis which illustrate important principles underpinning this field of research. The limitations of current approaches are also noted, highlighting how much of the genetic risk remains unexplained and resolving specific functional variants difficult. There is a need to more clearly understand the significance of rare variants and structural genomic variation in common disease, as well as epigenetic mechanisms. Specific examples from pharmacogenomics are described including warfarin dosage and prediction of abacavir hypersensitivity that illustrate how in some cases such knowledge is already impacting on clinical practice, while in others prospective evaluation of clinical utility and cost-effectiveness is required to define opportunities for personalized medicine. There is also a need for a broader debate about the ethical implications of current advances in genetics for medicine and society.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/24221890> Development of an indirect immunofluorescence technique for the diagnosis of toxoplasmosis in bottlenose dolphins.  The diagnosis of toxoplasmosis is often complicated by the lack of specific clinical symptoms or postmortem features, in humans and other animals. The only diagnostic test described so far for the serological diagnosis of Toxoplasma gondii in marine mammals is the modified agglutination test (Dubey et al., Am J Vet Res 48(8):1239-1243, 1987). The development of more sensible and specific immunological techniques requires specific antibodies, which are currently unavailable in the scientific market. Indirect immunofluorescence (IIF) is one of the most widely used methods for the diagnosis of toxoplasmosis in humans (Auer et al., Parasitol Res 12:965-970, 2000). In order to develop and apply this technique to the bottlenose dolphin (Tursiops truncatus), immunoglobulins were firstly purified using ion-exchange chromatography. The purified immunoglobulins were then injected in New Zealand rabbits in order to obtain polyclonal antibodies. These antisera were validated by the IIF technique, using as controls serum samples of dolphins infected by Toxoplasma. The results were visualized using antirabbit IgG labeled with fluorescein. This newly developed and specific serological assay was then tested with the dolphin collection of Loro Parque, Tenerife, Spain (group I), and L'Oceanogràfic of Valencia, Spain (group II). The obtained results in this study showed that none of the dolphins from group 1 were infected by T. gondii and two animals were positive in group 2. Furthermore, we conclude that this study has produced antibodies with high specificity against dolphin immunoglobulins and an IIF method which may be used as immunological diagnostic tools, especially for the serological diagnosis of toxoplasmosis. 
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/21641784> Museums and disease: using tissue archive and museum samples to study pathogens.  Molecular studies of archival and fossil samples have traditionally focused on the nucleic acids derived from the host species. However, there has recently been an increase in ancient DNA research on the identification and characterization of infectious agents within the hosts. The study of pathogens from the past provides great opportunities for discovering the causes of historical infection events, characterizing host-microorganism co-evolution and directly investigating the evolution of specific pathogens. Several research teams have been able to isolate and characterize a variety of different bacterial, parasite and viral microorganisms. However, this emerging field is not without obstacles. The diagenetic processes that make ancient DNA research generally difficult are also impediments to ancient pathogen research and perhaps more so given that their DNA may represent an even rarer proportion of the remaining nucleic acids in a fossil sample than host DNA. However, studies performed under controlled conditions and following stringent ancient DNA protocols can and have yielded reliable and often surprising results. This article reviews the advantages, problems, and failures of ancient microbiological research.Copyright © 2011 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/99061> Apparent absence of Sarcocystis and low prevalence of Trichinella in artificially digested diaphragm muscle removed during post-mortem examination at a Sacramento (California) medical center.  Diaphragm samples taken from 297 humans at autopsy over a 20-mo period were artificially digested and the digestate was examined for Sarcosystis and Trichinella. No infection with Sarcocystis was found while three infections with Trichinella were discovered.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/17966547> Primary hydatid disease of the soft tissue.  Human hydatid disease is caused by the larval form of the tapeworm genus Echinococcus. The ova hatch in the small intestine, penetrate the intestinal wall, pass through the portal vein into the liver, lungs, and other tissues, and develop into a hydatid cyst. Hydatid disease is endemic in many parts of the world; in the Mediterranean Countries, the Middle and Far East and South America. Soft tissue hydatid disease without the liver and the lung involvement occurs in 2.3% of patients reported from endemic areas. Hydatid disease should be considered in the differential diagnosis of all cystic masses in all anatomic locations especially in endemic areas.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/11422520> Post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis in Nepal.  Post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) manifests as a skin eruption after healing of visceral leishmaniasis (VL), either spontaneously or as a result of treatment. This study was undertaken to describe the demographic, clinical, and histopathologic features of PKDL in Nepal.Demographic, clinical, microbiologic, and histopathologic features and response to treatment were studied in 22 patients with PKDL from April 1998 to March 2000.PKDL accounted for 0.13% of all new dermatologic cases. There were 13 (59.1%) males and nine (40.9%) females. A past history of kala-azar was present in all but one patient. A family history of kala-azar was noted in eight (36.4%) patients. All patients presented with multiple types of lesion, except for two in whom only macular lesions were seen. Oral lesions in the form of nodules and plaques were seen in four patients. Generalized lymphadenopathy was present in five patients. Slit skin smears revealed Leishman-Donovan bodies (LDBs) in nine (40.9%) patients. In macular lesions, there was a sparse infiltrate of plasma cells, lymphocytes, or histiocytes in the upper dermis. There was a dense chronic inflammatory infiltrate comprising plasma cells, lymphocytes, histiocytes, and epithelioid cells in the entire dermis from papules, plaques, or nodules. Giemsa staining of biopsy specimens revealed LDBs in seven (38.9%) patients only. Fine needle aspiration from epitrochlear lymph nodes in two patients demonstrated LDBs. All patients responded well to treatment with minimal side-effects.This study emphasizes the need to be aware of the possibility of cases of PKDL in endemic regions of leprosy, as the conditions may be difficult to distinguish clinically and histopathologically.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/19301635> Myxozoan infections in fishes of the Tasik Kenyir Water Reservoir, Terengganu, Malaysia.  During a survey on fishes of the Tasik Kenyir Reservoir, Malaysia, 5 new Myxobolus spp. and 2 known Henneguya spp. were found. The specific locations for 2 Myxobolus spp. were the host's muscles, while 2 other Myxobolus spp. were found to develop in the host's kidney and gills, respectively. Of the species developing intracellularly in muscle cells, M. terengganuensis sp. nov. was described from Osteochilus hasselti and M. tasikkenyirensis sp. nov. from Osteochilus vittatus. M. csabai sp. nov. and M. osteochili sp. nov. were isolated from the kidney of Osteochilus hasselti, while M. dykovae sp. nov. was found in the gill lamellae of Barbonymus schwanenfeldii. Henneguya shaharini and Henneguya hemibagri plasmodia were found on the gills of Oxyeleotris marmoratus and Hemibagrus nemurus, respectively. Description of the new and known species was based on morphological characterization of spores, histological findings on locations of plasmodia and DNA sequence data.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/11304062> A possible role of bats as a blood source for the Leishmania vector Lutzomyia longipalpis (Diptera: Psychodidae).  Some evidence suggests that bats may provide an alternative blood source for Lutzomyia longipalpis, the main vector of American visceral leishmaniasis. Feeding trials were conducted to determine whether L. longipalpis feeds on captive bats. The high feeding success indicated that L. longipalpis is capable of feeding on at least four species of bats. Implications for the epidemiology of leishmaniases are discussed.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/17291536> The frequency and profile of neurology in black South African HIV infected (clade C) patients - a hospital-based prospective audit.  To determine the frequency and spectrum of neurological illnesses in Black South African hospital-based HIV infected (clade C) patients.A prospective audit of 506 consecutive HIV infected medical inpatients at the Helen Joseph Hospital, Johannesburg, South Africa.The patients had a mean age of 37 years; a male:female ratio of 1.2:1; a mean CD4 count of 107 cells/ml. Eighty four percent of patients had AIDS defining CD4 counts (less than 200 cells/ml). Seventy five percent of patients had a neurological illness. In 64% the neurological illness occurred in association with a non-neurological (systemic) illness. Eleven percent of patients had an isolated neurological illness. The predominant systemic illness was tuberculosis (TB), occurring with a frequency of 46%. The neurological spectrum in our patients was similar to that described in the literature, (clade B virus data) other than for a greater frequency of infectious illnesses.The neurological profile of HIV infection is a function of the environment and the immunological state of the patient (CD4 count) rather than an influence of the clade.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/16903509> Phthiriasis palpebrarum: 2 case reports.  Phthiriasis palpebrarum, caused by the phthirus pubis, is a rare cause of blepharoconjunctivitis, and is therefore often neglected. We present 2 patients who suffered itching and irritation at the right upper eyelid. Biomicroscopic examination showed a few lice and nits anchored to the eyelashes. Dermatologic examination revealed the presence of numerous lice and nits at the trunk and pubic area. The lice and nits were manually removed if possible, and the patients were asked to put vaseline on the eyelid margins. The patients were also treated with malathion 0.5% lotion. After control, two weeks later, no more lice nor nits were present in the first patient.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/2072374> Clinical and diagnostic findings in 20 patients with toxoplasmosis and the acquired immune deficiency syndrome.  The clinical and diagnostic findings in 20 cases of toxoplasmosis associated with the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) were investigated in a prospective study of patients in south-east England. Individual details were recorded by a standardised questionnaire incorporating an evaluation of initial presentation, radiological findings, therapy and clinical progression. Toxoplasma serology was performed by reference assays and the presence of the parasite in tissue was sought by culture, histological examination and specific DNA detection. Clinical findings at presentation and results of radiological investigation were comparable with previously published experience from the USA. In contrast, sampling of the cerebrospinal fluid was rarely performed and was found to be of little clinical value. Examination of tissue samples was diagnostic when available, but was not performed routinely. Sulphonamide plus pyrimethamine was the treatment of choice in most cases and response to therapy was satisfactory, although a high incidence of toxicity was recorded.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/21419863> Dioctophyme renale (Nematoda: Dioctophymatoidea) in the abdominal cavity of Rattus norvegicus in Japan.  We collected 24 brown rats, Rattus norvegicus, in Kanagawa Prefecture in Japan and found one rat harboring a dioctophymatid nematode. A single male and a female worm were recovered from the abdominal cavity and were identified as Dioctophyme renale based on morphologic features and a BLAST DNA sequence analysis. We describe the morphological features of the adult worms and eggs from this extremely rare case of D. renale infection in a brown rat.Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/21626984> Ecological determinants of blindness in Nigeria: the Nigeria National Blindness and Visual Impairment Survey.  To determine the prevalence and causes of visual loss in different ecological zones across Nigeria.A population-based survey using multi-stage, stratified, cluster random sampling with probability proportional to size comprising a nationally representative sample of adults aged > or = 40 years from six ecological zones.Distance vision was measured using reduced logMAR charts. Clinical examination included basic eye examination for all respondents and a detailed examination including visual fields, gonioscopy and fundus photography for those who were visually impaired or blind (i.e. presenting vision < 20/40 in the better eye). A principal cause of visual loss was assigned to all respondents with presenting vision < 20/40 in the better eye.A total of 15 122 persons aged > or = 40 years were enumerated, 13 599 (89.9%) of whom were examined. The prevalence of blindness varied according to ecological zone, being highest in the Sahel region (6.6%; 95% confidence interval (CI) 4.2 - 10.4) and lowest in the rain forest region (3.23%; 95% CI 2.6 - 3.9). Age/ gender-adjusted analyses showed that risk of blindness was highest in Sahel (odds ratio (OR) 3.4; 95% CI 2.1 - 5.8). More than 80% of blindness in all ecological regions was avoidable. Trachoma was a significant cause only in the Sudan savannah belt. The prevalence of all major blinding conditions was highest in the Sahel.The findings of this national survey may be applicable to other countries in West and Central Africa that share similar ecological zones. Onchocerciasis and trachoma are not major causes of blindness in Nigeria, possibly reflecting successful control efforts for both these neglected tropical diseases.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/7673665> Tropical medicine. Current problems and possible solutions.  The health of the people in tropical and subtropical countries is compromised because of multiple factors including demography, economics, and particularly an ever-increasing burden of illness from infections and parasitic diseases. At the turn of the century, malaria, schistosomiasis, and tuberculosis are three major challenges that the majority of the world population is facing with few effective chemotherapeutic or immunologic tools. Furthermore, the ever-increasing threat of emerging infections is taxing our surveillance and detection procedures. The modern biomedical revolution promises a better outcome if a global effort in investing in health is effectively launched.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/22247048> Influenza and community-acquired pneumonia interactions: the impact of order and time of infection on population patterns.  Discoveries made during the 1918 influenza A pandemic and reports of severe disease associated with coinfection during the 2009 hemagglutinin type 1 and neuraminidase type 1 (commonly known as H1N1 or swine flu) pandemic have renewed interest in the role of coinfection in disease pathogenesis. The authors assessed how various timings of coinfection with influenza virus and pneumonia-causing bacteria could affect the severity of illness at multiple levels of interaction, including the biologic and population levels. Animal studies most strongly support a single pathway of coinfection with influenza inoculation occurring approximately 7 days before inoculation with Streptococcus pneumoniae, but less-examined pathways of infection also may be important for human disease. The authors discussed the implications of each pathway for disease prevention and what they would expect to see at the population level if there were sufficient data available. Lastly, the authors identified crucial gaps in the study of timing of coinfection and proposed related research questions.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/19566060> [Parasitic diseases in the Kyrgyz Republic: epidemiological aspects].  The paper analyzes the epidemiological situation associated with intestinal helminthic and protozoan diseases in the Kyrgyz Republic in the past 17 years (1991-2007). The analysis suggests that parasitic diseases are of wide spread in the republic. In the structure of infectious diseases, parasitic diseases account for 45%. Children less than 14 years of age are a risk group, whose proportion is 80%. Enteric nosological entities are prevalent in the structure of parasitic diseases. There has been a long-term trend for a rise in the incidence of echinococcosis and ascariasis and for a decrease in that of enterobiasis and hymenolepiasis.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/9337004> Retinal haemorrhage in cerebral malaria.  We examined the fundi of 73 children aged between six months and six years with confirmed diagnosis of cerebral malaria at the Children's Emergency Ward of the University College Hospital, Ibadan. Normal fundi, papilloedema and retinal haemorrhages were present in 38(52.1%), 18(24.7%) and 17(23.3%), respectively on admission. There were no significant differences between the three groups with respect to age, sex, admission coma score, posture, packed cell volume, parasite density, serum glucose, and serum electrolyte profile on admission. The mortality rates were 16%, 22% and 47% in the normal, papilloedema and retinal haemorrhage groups, respectively (Chi-squared for linear trend = 5.587, p = 0.018). Retinal haemorrhage was significantly associated with death (chi 2 = 5.846, p = 0.0192; Crude Odds ratio = 4.1, 95% CI = 1.1, 15.6; p = 0.018). The association was still present after adjusting for other known risk factors for mortality, including age, sex, acidosis, parasite density, anaemia, deep coma, and hypoglycaemia (adjusted Odds Ratio = 4.6, p = 0.0688). Papilloedema alone was not associated with mortality when compared with normal fundi [Fischer's exact (p = 0.448)]. It is concluded that fundoscopic abnormalities are common in children with cerebral malaria, and that retinal haemorrhage is associated with a poor prognosis in such children with cerebral malaria. Therefore, fundoscopic examination is not only useful to rule out raised intracranial pressure before performing a lumbar puncture, but also a useful measure in assessing prognosis in children suffering from cerebral malaria.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/16120908> Pleuropulmonary paragonimiasis: CT findings in 31 patients.  The purpose of our study was to identify any specific CT features that may help in the diagnosis of pleuropulmonary paragonimiasis.Pleuropulmonary paragonimiasis usually manifests as a subpleural or subfissural nodule of about 2 cm in diameter that frequently contains a necrotic low-attenuation area. The constellation of focal pleural thickening and subpleural linear opacities leading to a necrotic peripheral pulmonary nodule is another frequent CT finding of paragonimiasis. Although minimal and easily overlooked, focal fibrotic pleural thickening adjacent to a pulmonary nodule can be an important clue in the diagnosis of pleuropulmonary paragonimiasis on CT.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/15727574> Epidemiology of life-threatening and lethal anaphylaxis: a review.  Severe anaphylaxis is a systemic reaction affecting two or more organs or systems and is due to the release of active mediators from mast cells and basophils. A four-grade classification routinely places 'severe' anaphylaxis in grades 3 and 4 (death could be graded as grade 5). Studies are underway to determine the prevalence of severe and lethal anaphylaxis in different populations and the relative frequencies of food, drug, latex and Hymenoptera anaphylaxis. These studies will also analyse the risk arising from the lack of preventive measures applied in schools (personalized management protocols) and from the insufficient use of self-injected adrenalin. Allergy-related conditions may account for 0.2-1% of emergency consultations. Severe anaphylaxis affects 1-3 per 10 000 people, but for the United States and Australia figures are even higher. It is estimated to cause death in 0.65-2% of patients, i.e. 1-3 per million people. An increased prevalence has been revealed by monitoring hospitalized populations by reference to the international classification of disease (ICD) codes. The relative frequency of aetiological factors of allergy (food, drugs, insects and latex) varies in different studies. Food, drug and Hymenoptera allergies are potentially lethal. The risk of food-mediated anaphylaxis can be assessed from the number of personalized management protocols in French schools: 0.065%. Another means of assessment may be the rate of adrenalin prescriptions. However, an overestimation of the anaphylaxis risk may result from this method (0.95% of Canadian children). Data from the literature leads to several possibilities. First, a definition of severe anaphylaxis should be agreed. Secondly, prospective, multicentre enquiries, using ICD codes, should be implemented. Moreover, the high number of anaphylaxis cases for which the aetiology is not identified, and the variation in aetiology in the published series, indicate that a closer cooperation between emergency specialists and allergists is essential.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/2705294> Genetic control of immunity to Eimeria tenella. Interaction of MHC genes and non-MHC linked genes influences levels of disease susceptibility in chickens.  The relative importance of MHC genes and background genes in the genetic control of disease susceptibility and the development of protective immunity to E. tenella infection was investigated in eight different strains of 15I5-B congenic and four inbred chicken strains. RPRL 15I5-B congenic chickens that share a common genetic background but express different B haplotypes demonstrated wide variations in disease susceptibility and the development of acquired resistance to E. tenella infection. Infection of chickens sharing a common B haplotype but expressing different genetic backgrounds showed quite contrasting levels of susceptibility to secondary E. tenella infection. In all chicken strains examined, infected chickens developed high levels of serum and biliary anti-coccidial antibodies regardless of their B haplotypes. Furthermore, no correlation between antibody levels and the phenotypically expressed levels of disease resistance was demonstrated. These findings lend support to the view that interaction of MHC genes and non-MHC genes influences the outcome of host response to E. tenella infection.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/15067308> Emerging infectious diseases.  Human population growth, technological advances, and changing social behaviors lead to the selection of new microbial pathogens. Antimicrobial drugs, vaccines, diagnostics, and treatments for emerging infectious diseases must be developed. The selective forces that drive the emergence of new infectious diseases, and the implications for our survival, are just beginning to be understood.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/23870627> A randomized trial of artemether-lumefantrine and dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine in the treatment of uncomplicated malaria among children in western Kenya.  Artemether-lumefantrine (AL) was adopted as first-line treatment for uncomplicated malaria in Kenya in 2006. Monitoring drug efficacy at regular intervals is essential to prevent unnecessary morbidity and mortality. The efficacy of AL and dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (DP) were evaluated for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria in children aged six to 59 months in western Kenya.From October 2010 to August 2011, children with fever or history of fever with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum mono-infection were enrolled in an in vivo efficacy trial in accordance with World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines. The children were randomized to treatment with a three-day course of AL or DP and efficacy outcomes were measured at 28 and 42 days after treatment initiation.A total of 137 children were enrolled in each treatment arm. There were no early treatment failures and all children except one had cleared parasites by day 3. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-uncorrected adequate clinical and parasitological response rate (ACPR) was 61% in the AL arm and 83% in the DP arm at day 28 (p = 0.001). PCR-corrected ACPR at day 28 was 97% in the AL group and 99% in the DP group, and it was 96% in both arms at day 42.AL and DP remain efficacious for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria among children in western Kenya. The longer half-life of piperaquine relative to lumefantrine may provide a prophylactic effect, accounting for the lower rate of re-infection in the first 28 days after treatment in the DP arm.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/21534223> Examinations regarding the prevalence of intestinal parasitic diseases in Polish soldiers contingents assigned to missions abroad.  The aim of this paper is to present the program of diagnostic examinations regarding the detection and following treatment of intestinal parasitic diseases in the population of Polish soldiers serving in different climatic and sanitary conditions. Intestinal parasitoses remain one of the health problems of soldiers participating in contemporary military operations. This fact mainly results from unsatisfactory sanitary and hygienic standards in the regions where troops are deployed, contamination of water and soil, inappropriate processes of purifying drinking water, and the terrible condition of sewage systems, water purification plants, or sewage treatment facilities. The occurrence of such diseases is further facilitated by disregard of some basic principles of food and feeding hygiene. Mass examinations of Polish troops to find the prevalence of intestinal parasitoses will cause a decrease in the morbidity rate of parasitic diseases among Polish soldiers deployed in military operations. They can also lead to a decrease in expenditure on medical treatment of disease-related complications and on damages awarded to soldiers who have developed a serious disease while being engaged in a mission abroad.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/9342745> The parasitism of fish from Lake Constance--a comparison of present and earlier data.  Commercial fish (perch, roach, bream, dace, and burbot) were caught below Langenargen in 1988-1990. Their infestation with cestodes and digenean trematodes was studied. The results were compared with earlier data. The infestation of perch with Diplostomum spathaceum and Ichthyocotylurus variegatus noted in 1988-1990 had increased as compared with that observed in 1974-1976. The infestation of perch with Triaenophorus nodulosus seen in 1990 had increased as opposed to that noted in 1988. The infestation of bream with D. spathaceum and of perch and roach with Tylodelphys clavata observed in 1988-1990 had remained the same as that seen in 1974-1976. The infestation of perch with D. spathaceum noted in 1988-1990 had decreased as opposed to that reported for 1974-1976. The infestation of bream, dace, and burbot with T. clavata noted in 1988-1990 had decreased as compared with that observed in 1974-1976. The infestation of perch with T. nodulosus seen in 1988/1989 had decreased as opposed to that noted in 1974-1976. All three cyprinids studied as well as the burbot had been less intensively infested in 1988-1990 than in 1974-1976. Only perch had been more intensively infested in 1988-1990 than in 1974-1976, especially with D. spathaceum and I. variegatus.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/19380289> Surgical management of splenic echinococcal disease.  Infection of the spleen with echinococcus is a rare clinical entity. Because the diagnosis of a splenic infestation with echinococcus is sometimes delayed, large hydatid cysts or pseudotumors may develop, demanding a differential surgical approach to cure the disease.In a retrospective study 10 patients out of 250 with abdominal echinococcosis (4%) were identified to have splenic infestation, either limited to the spleen (n=4) or with synchronous involvement of the liver (n=4), major omentum (n=1), or the liver and lung (n=1). Only one patient had alveolar echinococcosis whereas the others showed hydatid cysts of the spleen. Surgical therapy included splenectomy in 7 patients or partial cyst excision combined with omentoplasty in 3 patients. In case of liver involvement, pericystectomy was carried out simultaneously.There was no mortality. Postoperative complications were observed in 4 patients. Hospital stay and morbidity were not influenced when splenic procedures were combined with pericystectomies of the liver. Mean follow-up was 8.8 years and all of the patients are free of recurrence at this time.Splenectomy should be the preferred treatment of hydatid cysts but partial cystectomy is suitable when the cysts are located at the margins of the spleen. Due to low morbidity rates, simultaneous treatment of splenic and liver hydatid cysts is recommended.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/26537030> Prevalence of Schistosomes and Soil-Transmitted Helminths among Schoolchildren in Lake Victoria Basin, Tanzania.  The objectives of this study was to conduct a survey on schistosomiasis and soil-transmitted helminth (STH) infections in order to come up with feasible control strategies in Lake Victoria basin, Tanzania. Depending on the size of the school, 150-200 schoolchildren were recruited for the study. Duplicate Kato-Katz stool smears were prepared from each child and microscopically examined for Schistosoma mansoni and STHs. Urine specimens were examined for Schistosoma haematobium eggs using the filtration technique. After the survey, mass drug administration was done using praziquantel and albendazole for schistosomiasis and STHs infections, respectively. A total of 5,952 schoolchildren from 36 schools were recruited for the study and had their stool and urine specimens examined. Out of 5,952 schoolchildren, 898 (15.1%) were positive for S. mansoni, 754 (12.6%) for hookworms, 188 (3.2%) for Ascaris lumblicoides, and 5 (0.008%) for Trichuris trichiura. Out of 5,826 schoolchildren who provided urine samples, 519 (8.9%) were positive for S. haematobium eggs. The results revealed that intestinal schistosomiasis, urogenital schistosomiasis, and STH infections are highly prevalent throughought the lake basin. The high prevalence of intestinal and urogenital schistosomisiasis in the study area was a function of the distance from Lake Victoria, the former being more prevalent at localities close to the lake, whilst the latter is more so away from it. Control of schistosomiasis and STHs in the study area requires an integrated strategy that involves provision of health education to communities, regular treatments, and provision of adequate safe water supply and sanitation facilities. 
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/15068039> Field trial of the efficacy of a combination of ivermectin and praziquantel in horses infected with roundworms and tapeworms.  Two hundred and thirty-three horses were screened for the presence of roundworms by faecal egg counts (FECs) and for tapeworms by an ELISA specific for antibodies to the immunodominant 12 kDa and 13 kDa tapeworms antigen. The 62 horses were found to be infected with both parasites were treated with a combination of 0.2 mg/kg ivermectin and 1.5 mg/kg praziquantel. The treatment suppressed the median FEC of the horses to zero for 10 weeks and significantly reduced their anti-12/13 kDa antibody levels. The estimated risk of tapeworm-associated colic in these horses was halved by 12 weeks after the treatment.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/24033903> HIV testing of patients diagnosed with tuberculosis increased in Denmark during the period from 2007 to 2009.  We examined the trends of HIV testing among patients notified with TB in Denmark during a 3-year period from 2007 to 2009. We were able to obtain HIV testing status for 96%. There was a significant increase of patients examined for HIV infection during the 3-year period. HIV prevalence among HIV-tested TB patients in Denmark is much higher than in the average population. It seems there is an increasing awareness in Denmark towards testing TB cases for HIV co-infection. © 2013 British HIV Association.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/23483912> Conservation efforts may increase malaria burden in the Brazilian Amazon.  Large-scale forest conservation projects are underway in the Brazilian Amazon but little is known regarding their public health impact. Current literature emphasizes how land clearing increases malaria incidence, leading to the conclusion that forest conservation decreases malaria burden. Yet, there is also evidence that proximity to forest fringes increases malaria incidence, which implies the opposite relationship between forest conservation and malaria. We compare the effect of these environmental factors on malaria and explore its implications.Using a large malaria dataset (~1,300,000 positive malaria tests collected over ~4.5 million km(2)), satellite imagery, permutation tests, and hierarchical Bayesian regressions, we show that greater forest cover (as a proxy for proximity to forest fringes) tends to be associated with higher malaria incidence, and that forest cover effect was 25 times greater than the land clearing effect, the often cited culprit of malaria in the region. These findings have important implications for land use/land cover (LULC) policies in the region. We find that cities close to protected areas (PA's) tend to have higher malaria incidence than cities far from PA's. Using future LULC scenarios, we show that avoiding 10% of deforestation through better governance might result in an average 2-fold increase in malaria incidence by 2050 in urban health posts.Our results suggest that cost analysis of reduced carbon emissions from conservation efforts in the region should account for increased malaria morbidity, and that conservation initiatives should consider adopting malaria mitigation strategies. Coordinated actions from disparate science fields, government ministries, and global initiatives (e.g., Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation; Millenium Development Goals; Roll Back Malaria; and Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria), will be required to decrease malaria toll in the region while preserving these important ecosystems.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/17290902> [Analyzing the time course of changes in the titers of specific antibodies while immunization of animals with the biological agent EgFB with different adjuvants].  The recombinant Echinococcus antigens EgF and EgB were prepared and purified by gel filtration and ion-exchange chromatography (800 and 780 mg, respectively being obtained). Four vaccinating complexes, the major component of which were the recombinant antigens EgF and EgB, were developed and tested in an experiment on rabbits. The time course of changes in antibody genesis was studied during a single immunization of the animals with the biological agent EgFB with different adjuvants for 120 days. The adjuvant substances ensuring as components of the biological agent EgFB a long circulation of specific antibodies to the Echinococcus antigens in the blood flow of the immunized animals (complete Freund's adjuvant, multicomponent oil emulsion) are presented.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/2230032> The pig as an intermediate host for Taiwan Taenia infection.  Eggs (1000-100,000/animal) of Taiwan Taenia were inoculated per os into 14 Small-Ear-Miniature (SEM), 19 Landrace-Small-Ear-Miniature (L-SEM), and 5 Duroc-Yorkshire-Landrace (DYL) pigs. These animals were sacrificed 7-107 days after infection. Thirty-four pigs were found to be infected with Taiwan Taenia cysticerci and the infection rates of SEM, L-SEM, and DYL were 86%, 89% and 100% respectively. The cysticerci recovery rates of SEM, L-SEM and DYL pigs were 27.2%, 1.7% and 0.27% respectively. Cysticerci were recovered only from the livers and none were found in muscles, viscera or other parts of the carcasses. More cysticerci were located in the liver parenchyma (71%) than on the liver surface (29%). Taiwan Taenia cysticerci were smaller than those of classical T. saginata or T. solium. Moreover, Taiwan Taenia cysticerci had 2 rows of rudimentary hooklets on the scolex. The results of this study indicate that young pigs are good intermediate hosts for Taiwan Taenia and that the SEM pig is a satisfactory host for experimental studies with this tapeworm. These results were similar to other studies with different geographic strains of the T. saginata-like tapeworm in the Far East. These strains appear to be the same and possibly a new species.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/25453574> First report of severe parainfluenza virus 4B and rhinovirus C coinfection in a liver transplant recipient treated with immunoglobulin.  We describe the first reported case of severe pneumonia due to coinfection by parainfluenza virus type 4B and rhinovirus C in a liver transplant recipient. The patient responded promptly to intravenous immunoglobulin and timely infection control measures prevented spreading of the infections. This report highlights respiratory viral coinfections as a possible cause of severe morbidity in transplant recipients and the importance of efficient molecular diagnostic technologies with major impact on clinical practice in a transplant center. It also describes a potential therapeutic strategy for such patients. Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/3727345> Immunization of cattle against hypodermatosis (Hypoderma lineatum (deVill.) and H. bovis (L.)) using H. lineatum antigens.  The feasibility of immunizing calves against Hypoderma lineatum and H. bovis with a crude H. lineatum larval extract or culture-derived antigen was investigated. Larval survival was followed through pupation. Grub appearance in the backs of both of the immunized groups was found to be 50% of that in the control groups. First appearance of H. bovis was significantly retarded in both immunized groups; however, H. lineatum was unaffected. Duration of H. bovis dropping was also shorter in animals receiving crude extract than in controls while duration of dropping of H. lineatum was not influenced by immunization. Survival of H. lineatum larvae to pupation was significantly reduced in animals immunized with crude larval extract, but not in those receiving culture-derived antigen. H. bovis survival was reduced by both treatments.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/10557152> Does Cryptosporidium parvum have a clonal population structure?  Cryptosporidiosis, the disease caused in humans by the opportunistic parasite Cryptosporidium parvum, is the result of zoonotic or anthroponotic transmission. Molecular characterization of different isolates from humans and other mammalian species has recently shown this species to be heterogeneous; this heterogeneity has been linked to the host of isolation, suggesting that the parasites causing zoonotic cryptosporidiosis and those propagated by anthroponotic transmission are genetically distinct. Here, Fatih Awad-El-Kariem provides an update on the taxonomic and epidemiological significance of these observations, and discusses evidence for and against the clonality hypothesis as a model to explain strain variation in this species.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/21056027> Effect of garlic and allium-derived products on the growth and metabolism of Spironucleus vortens.  Spironucleus is a genus of small, flagellated parasites, many of which can infect a wide range of vertebrates and are a significant problem in aquaculture. Following the ban on the use of metronidazole in food fish due to toxicity problems, no satisfactory chemotherapies for the treatment of spironucleosis are currently available. Using membrane inlet mass spectrometry and automated optical density monitoring of growth, we investigated in vitro the effect of Allium sativum (garlic), a herbal remedy known for its antimicrobial properties, on the growth and metabolism of Spironucleus vortens, a parasite of tropical fish and putative agent of hole-in-the-head disease. The allium-derived thiosulfinate compounds allicin and ajoene, as well as an ajoene-free mixture of thiosulfinates and vinyl-dithiins were also tested. Whole, freeze-dried garlic and allium-derived compounds had an inhibitory effect on gas metabolism, exponential growth rate and final growth yield of S. vortens in Keister's modified, TY-I-S33 culture medium. Of all the allium-derived compounds tested, the ajoene-free mixture of dithiins and thiosulfinates was the most effective with a minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of 107 μg ml(-1) and an inhibitory concentration at 50% (IC(50%)) of 58 μg ml(-1). It was followed by ajoene (MIC = 83 μg ml(-1), IC(50%) = 56 μg ml(-1)) and raw garlic (MIC >20 mg ml(-1), IC(50%) = 7.9 mg ml(-1)); allicin being significantly less potent with an MIC and IC(50%) above 160 μg ml(-1). All these concentrations are much higher than those reported to be required for the inhibition of most bacteria, protozoa and fungi previously investigated, indicating an unusual level of tolerance for allium-derived products in S. vortens. However, chemically synthesized derivatives of garlic constituents might prove a useful avenue for future research.Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/9809821> Susceptibility to infections and in vitro immune functions in cartilage-hair hypoplasia.  Cartilage-hair hypoplasia (CHH), an autosomal recessive chondrodysplasia, results in severe growth failure, sparse hair and impaired cellular immunity. Lymphocyte subpopulations and proliferative responsiveness in mitogen stimulation were analysed in 35 patients of whom 31% had an increased incidence of infections the year prior to the evaluation. Of the patients, 57% had a decreased CD4+ cell count which led to a decreased total count of T-lymphocytes in 52% and a subnormal CD4 +/CD8 + cell ratio in 32%. The B-lymphocyte count was usually normal. The natural killer cell count was above reference values in 40% of the patients. The lymphocyte stimulation indices as studied with phytohaemagglutinin , Concanavalin A and pokeweed mitogen were subnormal in 69%, 69% and 83% of the patients, respectively. The numbers of lymphocytes, T-lymphocytes and CD4+ cells, and the pokeweed mitogen stimulation index. but not the other measured parameters, correlated significantly with the proness to infections during the preceding year. However, the correlation was reverse with higher counts in the patients who had had recurring infections. The observed significant correlations may reflect immunological stimuli caused by recurring infections.The presently used parameters of cellular immunity poorly predict the clinical outcome of an individual cartilage-hair hypoplasia patient. All patients, irrespective of their in vitro immunological competence, have to be carefully followed because of possibility of serious infections and malignancies.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/2095997> [On the transmission role of residual microfilaremia cases in the area with filariasis virtually eradicated].  The transmission role of the residual microfilaremia cases was studied in Pingle Village, Liangqing Township, Yongning County where bancroftian filariasis had been virtually eradicated during 1984-1988. The results indicated that after the microfilarial rate of the human population met the criterion of elimination of filariasis, namely below 1% of the total population in all the administrative villages, and the average density of microfilaria being around 5 per 60 microliters peripheral blood, subsequent control measures might be no longer instituted while the microfilaria rate and its density could continue to decline. Some residual microfilaremiae cases having higher microfilarial density turned negative gradually, so did the natural infection rate of Culex quinquefasciatus with filaria larvae and its density year by year. No filaria larvae were found in vector mosquitoes in 1987-1988. The authors deemed that the filariasis transmission in this area has been interrupted.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/2516314> Phenotypic characterization of Theileria parva schizonts by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis.  Biosynthetically radiolabelled Theileria parva schizonts were purified from bovine lymphoblastoid cells and their proteins were analyzed by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and autoradiography. The protein spot patterns of schizont proteins from three stocks of T. parva parva indicated that the phenotypic diversity among the stocks was minimal, with the Mariakani and Uganda stocks being identical and the Muguga stock showing only a few differences in minor spots. Comparison of the spot patterns of schizonts of three T. parva subspecies showed that T.p. parva and T.p. bovis differed in only one protein and thus could not be reliably distinguished on the basis of their protein differences. However, T.p. lawrencei showed several protein differences and could be distinguished easily from the other subspecies. Differences in schizont-protein spot patterns were also seen when two different cell lines were infected with the same Theileria stabilate, when one cell line was infected with two different stabilates of the same stock and when uncloned and cloned infected cell lines were used. These results suggest the possibility that selection of phenotypically different parasites could occur in vivo or in vitro.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/24299508> Early life IgE responses in children living in the tropics: a prospective analysis.  There are few birth cohort studies analyzing IgE sensitization in the tropics.We aimed to describe the evolution of total IgE and specific IgE responses to house-dust mite (HDM) allergens and Ascaris in a birth cohort (Risk Factors for Asthma and Allergy in the Tropics, FRAAT), analyzing their relationships with wheezing.Total and specific IgE were measured by ImmunoCap in mothers and children at four different time points (S1-S4) between 0 and 42 months. Parasite infection was evaluated by stool examination.Maternal total IgE (aOR: 2.43, 95% CI: 1.09-5.43; p = 0.03) and socio-demographic factors were associated with high cord blood (CB) total IgE. High CB total IgE was positively associated with higher Blomia tropicalis and Ascaris-specific IgE values during lifetime, but protected from recurrent wheezing (aOR: 0.26, 95% CI: 0.08-0.88, p = 0.03). Prevalence rates of IgE sensitization were high; at around 3 yr old, they were 33.3, 18.6, and 26.5% for B. tropicalis, Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus, and Ascaris, respectively. Indicators of unhygienic conditions were risk factors for HDM and Ascaris sensitization in children. A weak statistical association between B. tropicalis-specific IgE and ever wheezing was found (aOR: 1.47 95% CI: 1.00-2.28, p = 0.05).In a socioeconomically deprived community from the tropics, sensitization to HDM allergens was very frequent at early life, especially to B. tropicalis. In contrast to expected according to the hygiene hypothesis, unhygienic/poverty conditions were risk factors for allergen sensitization. High CB total IgE levels were a risk factor for allergen sensitization but protected from recurrent wheezing.© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/2453202> Characterization by anti-Ig monoclonal antibodies of protective and non-protective antibodies against asexual forms of Plasmodium falciparum in the Saimiri monkey.  Four monoclonal antibodies (mAb) which recognize distinct epitopes on Saimiri immunoglobulins were successfully used to characterize the protective and non-protective antibodies developed by this experimental host in response to infection by the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum. Two of these mAb, 3F11/G10 and 3E4/H8, were IgG-specific and directed against conformationally conserved epitopes on the intact molecule. mAb 3A2/G6 and 4G3/B5 were specific for epitopes on two distinct L chain types of all Ig. Radioimmunoassay and immunoblots indicated that L-chains defined by 3A2/G6 were present in IgG molecules of type 3F11/G10, while L chains defined by 4G3/B5 were associated with IgG of type 3E4/H8. The use of these four mAb as immunoadsorbents allowed the purification of two IgG and two Ig populations. When assayed in vivo by passive transfer experiments in recipient monkeys previously infected by P. falciparum, protection could be associated with the IgG or Ig populations of type 3F11/G10-3A2/G6. In contrast, recipient animals which received the IgG type 3E4/H8 or Ig type 4G3/B5 presented rapidly evolving parasitemia similar to that in animals which received non-immune IgG or protective immune sera depleted of the above Ig or IgG fractions. The identification of protective and non-protective Ig populations will help in the evaluation of vaccine candidates against P. falciparum.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/1624595> Comparison of relative uses of commercial assays for Toxoplasma gondii IgM antibodies.  To compare the sensitivity and user friendliness of seven commercially available enzyme linked immunoabsorbent assay (ELISA) kits for toxoplasma specific IgM.Five antibody capture assays supplied by Abbott, Mercia, Northumbria, Organon and Sorin, and two indirect ELISA assays from Biostat and Mast, were assessed. Using defined dilutions of Toxoplasma gondii specific IgM, the performance and sensitivity of each assay was established. They were further assessed on a panel of 27 sera with a range of dye test and IgM results (as determined by the Scottish Toxoplasma Reference Laboratory). All of the assays were performed by three experienced operators and assessed for user satisfaction.The Mast, Organon, and Abbott assays were of low sensitivity; the Mercia and Northumbria were of high sensitivity; and the Biostat and Sorin assays produced too many false positive results. The Mercia kit provided most user satisfaction; the Mast and Abbott assays were most difficult to use.Local laboratories investigating toxoplasma infection should have three tests: one IgG and two IgM (high and low sensitivity) to help in the timing of infection. Alternatively, one sensitive IgM assay, such as that of Mercia, could be used by selecting appropriate high and low thresholds.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/26819361> An unexpected pulmonary bystander.  A 30-year-old man from Eritrea was admitted with a pulmonary bacterial abscess. Unexpectedly, histopathology of the resected lobe also revealed an infection with Schistosoma mansoni with surrounding granulomatous tissue and fibrosis. Patients from endemic areas are often asymptomatic with blood eosinophilia being the only diagnostic clue. Early recognition is important as ongoing fibrosing inflammation may result in organ damage. 
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/2131607> [Human diseases caused by free-living amoebae. II. Primary amebic ++ meningoencephalitis].  This revision gives an overall view of the health problems caused by the amoebas of the Naegleria genus, which despite being free-life amoebas, can affect humans, almost always fatally, because they cause a syndrome known as primary amoebian meningoencephalitis, which affects people of all ages and physical condition, and especially those who have a prior history of contacts, even if not exclusive, with fresh waters especially sports-related contacts. Morphological data of the protozoon are given, as well as of the pathology of the illness and the epidemiology, diagnosis, and treatment, plus a table of cases successfully treated around the world to date.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/7602170> Serum levels of tumor necrosis factor in different stages of schistosomal infection.  Schistosomal infections present their hosts with enormous immunological problems. The cytokine tumor necrosis factor, an effector molecule released mainly by stimulated macrophages is involved in various defence mechanisms mounted by the host against schistosome, However, TNF can be dangerous and may contribute to the pathology associated with schistosmal infections. In this study, the authors examined the circulating levels of TNF, IgE and the eosinophilic count in 41 patients and 25 health controls, trying to find an association between TNF concentrations and severity of the disease, IgE levels and eosinophilic count. All cases had significant anaemia, eosinophilia, elevated IgE and TNF concentrations.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/23009772> Anorectal opportunistic diseases in human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome patients: spectrum of cross-sectional imaging findings.  Patients infected with the human immunodeficiency virus, particularly male homosexuals, are prone to develop disorders involving the anorectal and perineal structures. Cross-sectional imaging techniques, such as multidetector computed tomography with multiplanar reformations and magnetic resonance imaging performed with phased-array coils, are increasingly adopted to detect and stage infectious and neoplastic diseases, and to assess posttreatment modifications. Pyogenic perianal sepsis may be usefully investigated with imaging, particularly to assess the presence and topography of abscess collections to allow a correct surgical choice. Rectal inflammatory involvement is frequently detected during intestinal opportunistic infections, such as cytomegalovirus, pseudomembranous, and amebic colitides, including primary and secondary imaging signs consistent with proctocolitis. Anal carcinoma and intestinal lymphoma are increasingly diagnosed; therefore, special attention should be paid to the identification of solid tissue consistent with tumor; furthermore, MRI provides optimal staging and posttreatment follow-up of neoplastic lesions. Knowledge of this varied spectrum of anorectal and perineal opportunistic abnormalities and their imaging appearances should help radiologists to propose appropriate differential diagnoses, suggest correlation with laboratory and microbiological assays or biopsy, and reliably assess therapeutic response.Copyright © 2012 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.
<doc id=ParasiticDisease/19348312> [The fauna of bloodsucking mosquitoes of Tadjikistan and their implication in the transmission of malaria].  At present, the fauna of bloodsucking Culicidae and Anopheles mosquitoes in Tadjikistan amounts to 27 and 9 species, respectively. The primary vectors in this country are An. superpictus and An. pulcherrimus and the secondary ones are An. claviger and An. hyrcanus. Among them, the predominant species An. superpictus and An. hyrcanus are in the country and An. artemievi and An. hyrcanus and in North Tadjikistan. The role of An. artemievi in the transmission of malaria requires further study.
<doc id=Homeopath/12587993> Patient-practitioner-remedy (PPR) entanglement. Part 2: Extending the metaphor for homeopathy using molecular quantum theory.  A quantum metaphor developed previously for homeopathy, involving triadic patient-practitioner-remedy (PPR) entanglement, is extended by importing concepts used in chemistry to describe the electronic structures of molecules. In particular, the electronic energy states of triangular tri-atomic molecules are used metaphorically to predict that (a) the more a homeopathic medicine is potentised, the deeper the level of cure is likely to be, and (b) the practitioner can be included as a beneficiary of the therapeutic process. The model also predicts that remedy attenuation and degree of PRR interaction could (in the quantum theoretical sense) represent a pair of complementary conjugate variables.
<doc id=Homeopath/12018517> Cytogenetical effects of sonication in mice and their modulations by actinomycin D and a homeopathic drug, Arnica 30.  Experiments were designed to examine if Actinomycin D, an antibiotic, and Amica 30, a homeopathic drug used against shock and injury, can ameliorate cytogenetic damage induced by single or multiple exposures to ultrasonication. Separate sets of healthy mice were directly exposed to sonication for two minutes either once or they received multiple exposures at an interval of 20 days. The mice were then assessed at different intervals, against suitable controls, using parameters like chromosome aberrations (CA), mitotic index (MI), sperm head anomaly (SHA) and micronucleated erythrocytes (MNE). Separate groups of sonicated mice were either orally administered with Arnica 30 (alcohol 30 in control) or injected intramuscularly with Actinomycin-D (AMD). Elevated frequencies of CA, MI, MNE and SHA were noted in sonicated series. AMD had genotoxic effects of its own and also had additive effects on sonication induced genotoxicity. Sonicated mice fed with Arnica 30 showed appreciably reduced genotoxicity as against alcohol 30 and distilled water fed controls, thereby showing ameliorating effect which may have human application.
<doc id=Homeopath/24050771> Effect of a homeopathic-complex medicine on state and trait anxiety and sleep disorders: a retrospective observational study.  The primary objective of this open-label, retrospective, observational study was to examine change in indicators of anxiety changed after treatment period of at least 1 month with the homeopathic-complex medicine Datif-PC(®). A secondary objective was to describe the quantitative changes in the sleep pattern of the subjects included in the study.The study population consisted of 71 subjects suffering from mild to moderate anxiety, who were treated with a homeopathic-complex medicine. The subjects had attended at least 2 consultations during the year 2010, with the second visit taking place at least 30 days after the first baseline visit. At both visits, subjects were administered the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI)-Y questionnaire (consisting of trait and state subscales) to assess their level of anxiety. Sleep quality was assessed based on the subjects' self-reported number of hours slept and number of night-time awakenings, before and after treatment.Compared to baseline, the average (STAI)-state score at visit 2 decreased by more than 6 points, while the STAI-trait score decreased by more than 3 points. This was statistically significant (p < 0.0001) for both subscales. These findings were stable in subgroup analyses (gender, age and anxiety level). The average number of hours slept per night increased significantly at visit 2 compared to baseline (from 5.1 ± 1.1 to 5.56 ± 0.9 h, p < 0.0001). A marked decrease in the average number of night-time awakenings was also observed at the second visit (-42%, p < 0.0001).This retrospective observational study suggests that treatment of anxiety and sleep disorders with Datif-PC(®) can produce notable improvements even in a short period of time. Furthermore, the observed effects were not affected by sex, age or baseline anxiety. Further controlled, randomized studies are justified.Copyright © 2013 The Faculty of Homeopathy. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
<doc id=Homeopath/7503711> [...that subsequently homeopathy will become nowhere as common as in veterinary medicine--the history of veterinary homeopathy in Germany].  The subject of this article is the historical development of veterinary homoeopathy in Germany until 1945. Turning away from drastic healing methods around 1800, Samuel Hahnemann started to develop his homoeopathic system which since the 1820ies was also applied in the treatment of animals, especially by laymen. The number of homoeopathically-oriented veterinarians remained small. This is also true for veterinary-homoeopathic articles claiming to be scientific while there was a considerable number of popular articles to be found. The professors of the veterinary teaching institutions rejected homoeopathy. At the end of the 19th century hardly anything was heard about veterinary homoeopathy, at least among the professionals. Scientific success in human and veterinary medicine pushed Hahnemann's teachings and those of his successors into the background. In the 1920ies homoeopathy was revived and the position of the renowned surgeon August Bier played an important part in that. Members of the Studiengemeinschaft für tierärztliche Homöopathie (Study Group for Veterinary Homoeopathy) which was founded in 1936 started to investigate the effects of homoeopathic drugs systematically. The war put an end to this project. The present situation of veterinary homoeopathy in Germany can be described as follows: Neither have allopathy and homoeopathy been united, as it had been predicted, nor has classical medicine accepted homoeopathy as a scientific discipline. Hahnemann's demand to make his teachings a part of the veterinary studies remains unfulfilled until today.
<doc id=Homeopath/8144225> Drug consumption pattern in low socio-economic group in an urban community.  117 families, having a total population of 558 were studied regarding drug consumption pattern. It was found that the average no. of episodes per person was 0.99 of which drugs were consumed for 72% of episodes. Significant difference was observed in consumption of drugs between males and females. Allopathic medicines were consumed for 93.3% of the episodes and the major source (53.8%) of medical care was from private practitioners. It was seen that the number of drugs consumed per episode of sickness rose as the per capita income increased. Vitamins and Minerals (22.3%) were the main group of drugs consumed. Drugs acting on the alimentary system (17.5%), Respiratory System (14.7%), Antimicrobials (14.6%) and Analgesics (10.8%) contributed to 80% of drug intake.
<doc id=Homeopath/21932295> Toxicology rewrites its history and rethinks its future: giving equal focus to both harmful and beneficial effects.  This paper assesses how medicine adopted the threshold dose-response to evaluate health effects of drugs and chemicals throughout the 20th century to the present. Homeopathy first adopted the biphasic dose-response, making it an explanatory principle. Medicine used its influence to discredit the biphasic dose-response model to harm homeopathy and to promote its alternative, the threshold dose-response. However, it failed to validate the capacity of its model to make accurate predictions in the low-dose zone. Recent attempts to validate the threshold dose-response indicate that it poorly predicts responses below the threshold. The long marginalized biphasic/hormetic dose-response model made accurate predictions in these validation studies. The failure to accept the possibility of the hormetic-biphasic dose-response during toxicology's dose-response concept formative period, while adopting the threshold model, and later the linear no-threshold model for carcinogens, led toxicology to adopt a hazard assessment process that involved testing only a few very high doses. This created the framework that toxicology was a discipline that only studied harmful responses, ignoring the possibility of benefit at low doses by the induction of adaptive mechanisms. Toxicology needs to assess the entire dose-response continuum, incorporating both harmful and beneficial effects into the risk assessment process.Copyright © 2011 SETAC.
<doc id=Homeopath/10735019> Complementary therapies: have they become accepted in general practice?  To describe Victorian general practitioners' attitudes towards and use of a range of complementary therapies.A self-administered postal survey sent to a random sample of 800 general practitioners (GPs) in Victoria in July 1997.488 GPs (response rate, 64%).GPs' knowledge; opinions about harmfulness and effectiveness; appropriateness for GPs to practise; perceived patient demand; need for undergraduate education; referral rates to complementary practitioners; and training in and practice of each therapy.Acupuncture, hypnosis and meditation are well accepted by the surveyed GPs, as over 80% have referred patients patients to practitioners of these therapies and nearly half have considered using them. General practitioners have trained in various therapies--meditation (34%), acupuncture (23%), vitamin and mineral therapy (23%), hypnosis (20%), herbal medicine (12%), chiropractic (8%), naturopathy (6%), homoeopathy (5%), spiritual healing (5%), osteopathy (4%), aroma-therapy (4%), and reflexology (2%). A quarter to a third were interested in training in chiropractic, herbal medicine, naturopathy and vitamin and mineral therapy. General practitioners appear to underestimate their patients' use of complementary therapies.There is evidence in Australia of widespread acceptance of acupuncture, meditation, hypnosis and chiropractic by GPs and lesser acceptance of the other therapies. These findings generate an urgent need for evidence of these therapies' effectiveness.
<doc id=Homeopath/25146079> Homeopathy in the treatment of fibromyalgia--a comprehensive literature-review and meta-analysis.  Coping with the complex nature of fibromyalgia symptoms (FMS) still remains a challenge for patients. Taking into account the possible adverse events of pharmacological treatments patients often seek additional treatments for the management of fibromyalgia and turn towards complementary and alternative medicine (CAM).In this review, we aimed to investigate the current state of literature of homeopathy in the treatment of FMS.We searched Medline, the Cochrane Register of Controlled Trials, Embase, AMED, PsycInfo and CAMbase for the terms fibromyalgia AND homeopath$ through February 2013. In addition we searched Google Scholar, the library of the Carstens Foundation and that of the Deutsche Homöopathische Union (DHU). Standardized mean differences (SMD) with 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated and meta-analyzed using the generic inverse variance method.We found 10 case-reports, 3 observational studies, 1 non-randomized and 4 randomized controlled trials (RCTs) on homeopathy for fibromyalgia. Both case reports and observational studies are naturally predominated by the use of qualitative and not validated outcome measures. Meta-analyses of CCTs revealed effects of homeopathy on tender point count (SMD=-0.42; 95%CI -0.78, -0.05; P=0.03), pain intensity (SMD=-0.54; 95%CI -0.97, -0.10; P=0.02), and fatigue (SMD=-0.47; 95%CI -0.90, -0.05; P=0.03) compared to placebo.The results of the studies as well as the case reports define a sufficient basis for discussing the possible benefits of homeopathy for patients suffering from fibromyalgia syndrome although any conclusions based on the results of this review have to be regarded as preliminary.Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
<doc id=Homeopath/22818231> Effects of microcurrent application alone or in combination with topical Hypericum perforatum L. and Arnica montana L. on surgically induced wound healing in Wistar rats.  This study evaluated the wound healing activity of microcurrent application alone or in combination with topical Hypericum perforatum L. and Arnica montana L. on skin surgical incision surgically induced on the back of Wistar rats.The animals were randomly divided into six groups: (1) no intervention (control group); (2) microcurrent application (10 μA/2 min); (3) topical application of gel containing H. perforatum; (4) topical application of H. perforatum gel and microcurrent (10 μA/2 min); (5) topical application of gel containing A. montana; (6) topical application of A. montana gel and microcurrent (10 μA/2 min). Tissue samples were obtained on the 2nd, 6th and 10th days after injury and submitted to structural and morphometric analysis.Differences in wound healing were observed between treatments when compared to the control group. Microcurrent application alone or combined with H. perforatum gel or A. montana gel exerted significant effects on wound healing in this experimental model in all of the study parameters (P<0.05) when compared to the control group with positive effects seen regarding newly formed tissue, number of newly formed blood vessels and percentage of mature collagen fibers. The morphometric data confirmed the structural findings. In conclusion, application of H. perforatum or A. montana was effective on experimental wound healing when compared to control, but significant differences in the parameters studied were only observed when these treatments were combined with microcurrent application.Copyright © 2012 The Faculty of Homeopathy. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
<doc id=Homeopath/20558606> Does homeopathy have anything to contribute to hormesis?  Homeopathy is the best known medical analogue of hormesis, others include hormoligosis and paradoxical pharmacology. Homeopathy is based on the concept Similia similibus curentur ('Let like be cured by like'); the exploitation of secondary effects of drugs, the body's reaction rather than the primary pharmacological action. The most controversial aspect of homeopathy is its use of 'ultramolecular' dilutions in which a single molecule of the starting substance is unlikely to be present. Classical pharmacological actions in vivo have been reported with dilutions as high as 10(-22)mol/L, but homeopathic medicines may be far more dilute than this. There is growing biological evidence including independent reproduction that in vivo effects may occur at such dilutions. In a systematic review, 73% of experiments showed an effect with ultramolecular dilutions including 68% of high-quality experiments. Physical and physico-chemical work suggests that homeopathic preparations contain stable ordered supramolecular structures, gas nanobubbles and dissolved silicates may be involved. Homeopathy may contribute to the generalizability and reproducibility of hormesis effects. It also raises the question of the threshold of hormesis effects.
<doc id=Homeopath/18439973> British media attacks on homeopathy: are they justified?  Homeopathy is being attacked by the British media. These attacks draw support from irresponsible and unjustified claims by certain teachers of homeopathy. Such claims include the use of 'dream' and 'imaginative' methods for provings. For prescribing some such teachers attempt to replace the laborious process of matching symptom picture and remedy with spurious theories based on 'signatures', sensations and other methods. Other irresponsible claims have also been made. These new ideas risk destroying the principles, theory, and practice of homeopathy.
<doc id=Homeopath/20347842> Homoeopathic treatment of upper respiratory tract infections in children: evaluation of thirty case series.  A pilot study of the homoeopathic treatment of recurrent Upper Respiratory Tract Infections (URTIs) in children below the age of 5 years was carried out using the data consisting of detailed case series with before and after comparison in respect of 30 patients collected during 2006. The study was carried out as part of a research project at a private Homoeopathic Medical College and Post-Graduate Institute. The number of attacks of the URTIs during the 6 months period preceding the date of commencement of the homoeopathic treatment (Control value) and 6 months period following the date of commencement of treatment (Treatment value) were compared. The results of the study indicated statistically significant differences (p<0.001%, t-test and Wilcoxon non-parametric test) in the two data sets in favour of homoeopathic treated cases. The results of the study indicate the utility of the homoeopathic remedies prescribed based on the concept of individualisation in the treatment of URTIs in children vis-à-vis improving the prescribing skills particularly with respect to the process of selection and types of medicines.Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
<doc id=Homeopath/10812756> Homoeopathy in primary care: self-reported change in health status.  In recent years numerous clinical trials have been carried out to evaluate homoeopathic therapy. Another approach to evaluating homoeopathy is to investigate its impact in primary health care, that is on outpatients to a homoeopathic centre.609 patients on their first visit to a homoeopathic clinic from June 1995 to May 1997 received a telephone call 1 year later in which they were asked to rate their general health compared with 1 year ago.1 year after first examination 73.5% of patients reported a marked or moderate improvement in their health status. Marked improvement was significantly higher in subjects who stated they were satisfied with the care received, in females, in the 0-15-year-old age group and in patients who completed therapy.For conditions which are not life-threatening, homoeopathy seems to meet patients' needs in primary health care.
<doc id=Homeopath/15561520> The use of simplified constitutional indications for self-prescription of homeopathic medicine.  To develop simplified constitutional indications for homeopathic medicines so that parents of children with recurrent upper respiratory tract infection (URTI) could choose homeopathic medicines for their children more accurately, and to subsequently evaluate if these choices match the prescriptions of trained homeopaths.To initially select the most commonly used homeopathic medicines for URTI, data from a survey of 1097 patients visiting 80 different Norwegian homeopaths were used. A simplified constitutional indication was then developed for the three homeopathic medicines most frequently prescribed for recurrent URTI and otitis media. The constitutional indications were developed by a group of five homeopaths and were then sent to 20 homeopaths for further evaluation. To evaluate the parents' choice of homeopathic medicines compared to the prescription by trained homeopaths, a group of 11 randomly selected homeopaths were asked to participate. They recruited parents of 70 child patients.By using simplified constitutional indications for the three most commonly prescribed remedies, Calcarea carb, Pulsatilla and Sulphur, parents were able to choose the same homeopathic medicine as homeopaths' prescribed for 55% (95% CI 43-67) of children with URTI. There was excellent agreement between parents' choice and homeopaths' prescription for the three medicines (Kappa of 0.77, p<0.001).Simplified constitutional indications can be used to improve the quality of the choice of homeopathic medicines purchased over the counter (OTC) for self-treatment.
<doc id=Homeopath/17101766> Effects of homeopathic preparations on human prostate cancer growth in cellular and animal models.  The use of dietary supplements for various ailments enjoys unprecedented popularity. As part of this trend, Sabal serrulata (saw palmetto) constitutes the complementary treatment of choice with regard to prostate health. In homeopathy, Sabal serrulata is commonly prescribed for prostate problems ranging from benign prostatic hyperplasia to prostate cancer. The authors' work assessed the antiproliferative effects of homeopathic preparations of Sabal serrulata, Thuja occidentalis, and Conium maculatum, in vivo, on nude mouse xenografts, and in vitro, on PC-3 and DU-145 human prostate cancer as well as MDA-MB-231 human breast cancer cell lines. Treatment with Sabal serrulata in vitro resulted in a 33% decrease of PC-3 cell proliferation at 72 hours and a 23% reduction of DU-145 cell proliferation at 24 hours (P<.01). The difference in reduction is likely due to the specific doubling time of each cell line. No effect was observed on MDA-MB-231 human breast cancer cells. Thuja occidentalis and Conium maculatum did not have any effect on human prostate cancer cell proliferation. In vivo, prostate tumor xenograft size was significantly reduced in Sabal serrulata-treated mice compared to untreated controls (P=.012). No effect was observed on breast tumor growth. Our study clearly demonstrates a biologic response to homeopathic treatment as manifested by cell proliferation and tumor growth. This biologic effect was (i)significantly stronger to Sabal serrulata than to controls and (ii)specific to human prostate cancer. Sabal serrulata should thus be further investigated as a specific homeopathic remedy for prostate pathology.
<doc id=Homeopath/27515878> Re-analysis of survival data of cancer patients utilizing additive homeopathy.  In this short communication we present a re-analysis of homeopathic patient data in comparison to control patient data from the same Outpatient´s Unit Homeopathy in malignant diseases of the Medical University of Vienna. In this analysis we took account of a probable immortal time bias. For patients suffering from advanced stages of cancer and surviving the first 6 or 12 months after diagnosis, respectively, the results show that utilizing homeopathy gives a statistically significant (p<0.001) advantage over control patients regarding survival time. In conclusion, bearing in mind all limitations, the results of this retrospective study suggest that patients with advanced stages of cancer might benefit from additional homeopathic treatment until a survival time of up to 12 months after diagnosis. Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
<doc id=Homeopath/24685416> Reproducibility of effects of homeopathically potentised gibberellic acid on the growth of Lemna gibba L. in a randomised and blinded bioassay.  Reproducibility of basic research investigations in homeopathy is challenging. This study investigated if formerly observed effects of homeopathically potentised gibberellic acid (GA3) on growth of duckweed (Lemna gibba L.) were reproducible.Duckweed was grown in potencies (14x-30x) of GA3 and one time succussed and unsuccussed water controls. Outcome parameter area-related growth rate was determined by a computerised image analysis system. Three series including five independent blinded and randomised potency experiments (PE) each were carried out. System stability was controlled by three series of five systematic negative control (SNC) experiments. Gibbosity (a specific growth state of L. gibba) was investigated as possibly essential factor for reactivity of L. gibba towards potentised GA3 in one series of potency and SNC experiments, respectively.Only in the third series with gibbous L. gibba L. we observed a significant effect (p = 0.009, F-test) of the homeopathic treatment. However, growth rate increased in contrast to the former study, and most biologically active potency levels differed. Variability in PE was lower than in SNC experiments. The stability of the experimental system was verified by the SNC experiments.Gibbosity seems to be a necessary condition for reactivity of L. gibba to potentised GA3. Further still unknown conditions seem to govern effect direction and the pattern of active and inactive potency levels. When designing new reproducibility studies, the physiological state of the test organism must be considered. Variability might be an interesting parameter to investigate effects of homeopathic remedies in basic research.Copyright © 2014 The Faculty of Homeopathy. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
<doc id=Homeopath/26137648> [A change in medical thinking? or over-eager literary activity? August Bier, homeopathy and the Nobel Prize 1906-1936].  This essay explains the nomination and evaluation procedure for the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine. Its research is based on original files and on the example of August Karl Gustav Bier (1861-1949). It discusses the minutes of the Nobel Committee for physiology or medicine, which are kept in the Nobel Archives, as well as the unusually high number of nominations of August Bier and the nominations submitted by him; it also describes the reasons why August Bier, in the end, never received the Nobel Prize. The essay focuses mainly on the reception of Bier's homeopathic theses by the Nobel Prize Committee and his nominators.
<doc id=Homeopath/11327520> Can homeopathically prepared mercury cause symptoms in healthy volunteers? A randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled trial.  To pilot a method for determining whether homeopathically prepared mercury causes more symptoms (a drug proving) in healthy volunteers than placebo.One hundred and eighteen (118) healthy volunteers ages 18 to 65 were recruited by local advertising. Subjects unfamiliar with homeopathy undertook a 1-week single-blind placebo run-in, a 1-week of double-blind, randomized treatment on either homeopathically prepared mercury 12C or placebo, and a third week of placebo run-out. Each day, symptoms were recorded on a checklist that included both true mercury symptoms and symptoms not expected to be caused by mercury (false symptoms). Additional symptoms were assessed by open reporting. Outcome was assessed by calculating a score for each day as the number of true symptoms minus the number of false symptoms. The mean score during placebo was then subtracted from the mean score for weeks two and three of the trial.Fourteen (14) subjects dropped out during placebo run-in. The remaining 104 completed the trial. Baseline comparability was good. Mean difference score was -0.125 (SD 3.47) for mercury and -0.221 (SD 3.01) for placebo (p > 0.2). No significant differences between groups were found for the number of subjects meeting predefined criteria for a drug-proving reaction.This pilot study failed to find evidence that mercury 12C causes significantly more symptoms in healthy volunteers than placebo. Questionnaires with a limited number of gross symptoms do not seem to be an appropriate methodological technique in drug proving research. If drug-proving phenomena exist, they appear to be rare.
<doc id=Homeopath/11302781> Clinical outcomes of a diagnostic and treatment protocol in allergy/sensitivity patients.  This level II outcome study was conducted to examine the efficacy and toxicity of a diagnostic and treatment protocol using electrodermal screening (EDS) in allergy/sensitivity patients.Ninety-six patients with a diagnosis of allergy or sensitivity entered the study between 1994 and 1998; 90 participants completed the study. All participants followed the same protocol, and all interactions were with a single clinician at a single site. The Allergy Symptom Severity Index (ASSI) was developed to record symptomatic information. EDS - conductance measurement 1/( - of specific acupuncture points was used as an objective endpoint (indicator of outcome) and for identification of antigens, according to Voll criteria. All measurements were taken before and after treatment, and EDS was carried out at all treatment sessions. Outcome criteria suggesting efficacy were reduction in ASSI score, reduction in number of items testing positive, and normalization of conductance measurements. A statistical analysis of the outcomes was performed using the student's paired t-test.There was a statistically significant change in pre- and post-treatment measurements of the ASSI. The conductance measurements normalized and the number of items testing positive decreased compared to pre-treatment testing. In addition to these parameters, 87.2 percent of subjects rated efficacy as good to excellent, and less than one-percent rated the outcome as poor. The outcome demonstrated longevity, meaning that people who had their post-treatment evaluation up to three years after primary treatment were still showing minimal ASSI scores, with no additional treatment. The treatment appeared to work equally well across age groups and gender. Forty-eight percent of participants had an aggravation of symptoms after treatment, lasting an average of 10 hours, with reactions described as mild to moderate. Average cost of the desensitization protocol (all costs included) was $822.16.This protocol demonstrated efficacy without serious toxicity and no long-term adverse effects. It is natural, non-invasive, and does not require long periods of avoidance of offending foods or environmental stimuli. The desensitization protocol is a low-cost, effective therapy for the treatment of patients suffering from symptoms of allergy/sensitivity disease.
<doc id=Homeopath/20486620> Homeopathy in cancer care.  Homeopathy is a controversial system of care that is practiced extensively in Europe, Asia, and South America primarily for functional and minor ailments. In this review, published studies on homeopathic remedies and cancer were examined. Data were obtained from multiple research disciplines, ranging from basic science to scientifically valid animal and clinical studies. The data from a few laboratory experiments in cancer models show some beneficial effect of homeopathic remedies on selected cancer cell lines. However, in the clinical arena, this effect is not clear. Several published outcome studies and some randomized controlled trials have shown that there may be a role for homeopathy in symptom relief and improving quality of life in patients touched by cancer. Such effects have not been demonstrated unequivocally, and specific antitumor effects have not been shown in any controlled clinical research to date, which raises the need for further clinical trials to investigate the use of homeopathy in cancer care.
<doc id=Homeopath/16672197> Natural products and anti-inflammatory activity.  The aim of this review paper was to summarise some commonly available natural products and their anti-inflammatory activity. We have collected data from MEDLINE, Current Contents and scientific journals, which included 92 publications. There are numerous natural products detailed in this literature; however we have summarized a few of the most commonly available and potent ones. In this paper, the natural products with anti-inflammatory activity including curcumin, parthenolide, cucurbitacins, 1,8-cineole, pseudopterosins, lyprinol, bromelain, flavonoids, saponins, marine sponge natural products and Boswellia serrata gum resin were reviewed. Natural products play a significant role in human health in relation to the prevention and treatment of inflammatory conditions. Further studies are being conducted to investigate the mechanism of action, metabolism, safety and long term side effect of these natural products, as well as interactions between these natural products with food and drug components.
<doc id=Homeopath/22487373> The science of high dilutions in historical context.  This paper begins from a discussion of the terms currently applied to the preparations used in homeopathic practice and relates them to the names given to them by Hahnemann, the founder of homeopathy. The latter were directly related to the notion of matter Hahnemann held, this is discussed as it evolved from the earliest sources to the sixth and final edition of the Organon of Medicine, through all the editions of this work as well as many other hitherto rarely explored sources. This review shows that Hahnemann moved conceptually within the field of concepts of late 18th- early 19th century science. This is only natural, and, a legitimate object for studies of the history of science and medicine.Copyright © 2012 The Faculty of Homeopathy. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
<doc id=Homeopath/16813505> Effect of low doses and high homeopathic potencies in normal and cancerous human lymphocytes: an in vitro isopathic study.  Biologic effects of high homeopathic potencies can be studied in cell cultures using cell lines or primary cells. We hypothesized that primary cells would be more apt to respond to high potencies than cell lines, especially cancer cell lines. We set out to investigate the effects of low doses and high homeopathic potencies of cadmium chloride, respectively, in an intoxication model with human primary lymphocytes compared to a human leukemia cell line (Jurkat).Cells were pretreated with either low concentrations (nM-microM) or high potencies (pool 15-20c) of cadmium for 120 hours, following which they were exposed to a toxic treatment with a range of cadmium concentrations (8-80 microM) during 24 hours. Cell viability was eventually assessed by use of the MTS/PES assay. Controls included a vehicle (NaCl 0.9%) for the low concentrations of cadmium or water 15-20c for cadmium 15-20c. A total of 34 experiments were conducted, 23 with low concentrations and 11 with high potencies of cadmium. Data were analyzed by analysis of variance.Pretreatment with low concentrations or high potencies of cadmium significantly increased cell viability in primary lymphocytes after toxic challenge, compared to control cells (mean effect +/- standard error = 19% +/- 0.9% for low concentrations respectively 8% +/- 0.6% for high potencies of cadmium; p < 0.001 in both cases). The pretreatment effect of low doses was significant also in cancerous lymphocytes (4% +/- 0.5%; p < 0.001), albeit weaker than in normal lymphocytes. However, high homeopathic potencies had no effect on cancerous lymphocytes (1% +/- 1.9%; p = 0.45).High homeopathic potencies exhibit a biologic effect on cell cultures of normal primary lymphocytes. Cancerous lymphocytes (Jurkat), having lost the ability to respond to regulatory signals, seem to be fairly unresponsive to high homeopathic potencies.
<doc id=Homeopath/14960099> The pitfalls of clinical case research: lessons from the Delphi Project.  Delphi is a project to make high-quality cases treated with homeopathy available for study. The project encountered a number of major difficulties including small numbers of cases submitted, ethical problems and problems of analysis. The nature of these problems and possible solutions are discussed.
<doc id=Homeopath/10169008> Homeopathy within alternative and orthodox care.  The increasing demand for treatment by alternative care practitioners has resulted in MCOs marketing networks of acupuncturists, herbalists, massage therapists, and others to their members. However, before an alternative provider network is considered, one must understand the comparisons and contrasts between conventional biomedical-based therapy and alternative care techniques. In the conclusion of a two-part article, the author delves into the practice of homeopathy.
<doc id=Homeopath/26678730> The use of animal models in homeopathic research--a review of 2010-2014 PubMed indexed papers.  In the 1990s, a study was performed on the effects of highly diluted thyroxine on frog metamorphosis. This model represented one of the most discussed examples of the biological effects of high dilutions over the next two decades. In 2010, another critical conceptual review of the use of animal models in homeopathy and high-dilution research was published. The main contribution of these studies was the elucidation of the biological features and phenomenology of the effects of high dilutions on living systems, representing an important step forward in our understanding of the mechanisms of action of homeopathic medicines.We performed a further review of this line of investigation using the same methods. Fifty-three articles that were indexed in the PubMed database and used 12 different animal species were systematically evaluated. Only a fraction of the studies (29/53) reported herein were performed with ultra high dilutions. The other studies were performed with dilutions in ranges below 10(-23) (14/53 articles) or commercial complexes (10/53 articles).Only two articles reported negative results; both used in vivo protocols to test commercial complexes, one in fish and one in bees. The quality of the employed techniques improved in 2010-2014 compared with the studies that were reviewed previously in 2010, with the inclusion of more ethically refined protocols, including in vitro primary cell cultures and ex vivo studies (10/53 articles), often with three or more replicates and analyses of epigenetic mechanisms that were previously unknown in 2010.In our updated review of the past 5 years, we found further demonstrations of the biological effects of homeopathy using more refined animal models and in vitro techniques.Copyright © 2015 The Faculty of Homeopathy. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
<doc id=Homeopath/11944357> [Use of homeopathic remedies in the treatment of ulcer].  The paper submits results of investigations designed to study efficacy of homeopathic medicines in treating peptic ulcer. Prospects are shown of employment of homeopathic therapy in modern treatment regimens for peptic ulcer. The place is substantiated by the authors of homeopathy in surgical, therapeutic, in-patient, out-patient, sanatorium-and-health resort treatment settings.
<doc id=Homeopath/17954380> Expectations and effectiveness of medical treatment and classical homeopathic treatment for patients with hypersensitivity illnesses--one year prospective study.  To describe and compare characteristics of adult patients who received treatment for hypersensitivity illnesses by general practitioners (GPs) and classical homeopaths (CHs) over a period of 1 year and examine the statistical predictors of self-reported treatment outcomes.We conducted a survey on 151 Danish adult patients with hypersensitivity illnesses, who chose treatment from one of 13 GPs or one of 10 CHs who participated in the project. The treatments were given as individual packages in the naturalistic clinical setting. Patients completed questionnaires at start of treatment, after 6 months and a year after start of treatment. Response rates for the first, second and third questionnaire were respectively 68%, 98%, 95% for the GP patients and 82%, 98%, 94% for the CH patients.Patients seeking CH treatment in this study are significantly different in gender and education from patients seeking GP treatment. We did not find significant differences in terms of occupational training, occupation, sickness absence due to hypersensitivity illnesses, diseases other than hypersensitivity illnesses, symptoms severity due to hypersensitivity illnesses before treatment and expectation of the ability of the treatment to alleviate symptoms. Eighty-eight percent of GP and 21% of CH patients were continuing treatment after 1 year. Regression analysis showed that the only significant independent variables to explain the probability of obtaining very positive effect or cure for GPs and CHs were that the patients were in 'maintenance treatment', and had high expectation before treatment of the ability of the treatment to relieve their symptoms.In this study self-reported very positive effect of GP treatment and very positive effect and cure of CH treatment are associated with the patients' high expectation of the treatment and continuation of maintenance treatment.
<doc id=Homeopath/16710274> [Comparative study of homeopathic remedies clinical efficacy in comprehensive treatment of inflammatory periodontal diseases in patients with burdened allergic status].  Comparative analysis of clinical efficacy of 3 antihomotoxic homeopathic preparations (Traumeel S, Engistol and Echinacea compositum S) with non-specific immunostimulating and anti-inflammatory effects was performed. The study showed that Traumeel S had maximal anti-inflammatory effect. In proportion as destructive process weighting the efficacy of homeopathic preparations was decreased. The preparations are indicated for comprehensive treatment of inflammatory periodontal diseases in patients with burdened allergic status or heavy concomitant pathology.
<doc id=Homeopath/17437932> Outcomes from homeopathic prescribing in dental practice: a prospective, research-targeted, pilot study.  A base for targeted research development in dental homeopathy can be founded on systematic collection and analysis of relevant data obtained by dentists in clinical practice. With these longer-term aims in mind, we conducted a pilot data collection study, in which 14 homeopathic dentists collected clinical and outcome data over a 6-month period in their practice setting.A specifically designed Excel spreadsheet enabled recording of consecutive dental appointments under the following main headings: date; patient identity (anonymised), age and gender; dental condition/complaint treated; whether chronic or acute, new or follow-up case; patient-assessed outcome (7-point Likert scale: -3 to +3) compared with first appointment; homeopathic medicine/s prescribed; whether any other medication/s being taken for the condition. Spreadsheets were submitted monthly via e-mail to the project co-ordinator for data synthesis and analysis.Practitioners typically submitted data regularly and punctually, and most data cells were completed as required, enabling substantial data analysis. The mean age of patients was 46.2 years. A total of 726 individual patient conditions were treated overall. There was opportunity to follow-up 496 individual cases (positive outcome in 90.1%; negative in 1.8%; no change in 7.9%; outcome not recorded in 0.2%). Sixty-four of these 496 patients reported their outcome assessment before the end of the homeopathic appointment. Strongly positive outcomes (scores of +2 or +3) were achieved most notably in the frequently treated conditions of pericoronitis, periodontal abscess, periodontal infection, reversible pulpitis, sensitive cementum, and toothache with decay.This multi-practitioner pilot study has indicated that systematic recording of practice data in dental homeopathy is both feasible and capable of informing future research. A refined version of the spreadsheet can be employed in larger-scale research-targeted data collection in the dental practice setting.
<doc id=Homeopath/16025629> [Pharmaceutical industry and New German Medicine (Neue Deutsche Heilkunde)].  THe so-called New German Medicine, initially propagated in the health policy of the National Socialist Party, promoted greater use of phytotherapeutic and homeopathic drugs by the medical community. In response, the Reichsfachschaft der pharmazeutischen Industrie e. V. (Association of Pharmaceutical Industry of the Reich) was obliged to pursue a carefully chosen double strategy, given that the members of the Association were both manufacturers of natural remedies and manufacturers of allopathic drugs.However, the fact that I.G. Farben completely ignored the New German Medicine suggests that the large chemical-pharmaceutical manufacturers did not take this policy very seriously. The only documents pertaining to increased research in the area of natural remedies stem from the medium-sized manufacturers Knoll and Schering. In the case of both companies it is noteworthy that they worked towards obtaining a scientific foundation for the developed preparates, and that they employed conventional methods of chemical analysis and proof of activity. THe growth of the classical manufacturers of natural remedies, such as the company Willmar Schwabe was, as far as any growth at all could be observed, significantly smaller than had been theoretically postulated. There is no casual relationship between any commercial success during the period in which the Nazis were in power and today's commercial prosperity.Moreover, from the viewpoint of the pharmaceutical industry, the New German Medicine seems to have passed its zenith before 1936, when the 4-year plan for war preparation entered into force.
<doc id=Homeopath/10516986> Homeopathy in rehabilitation medicine.  Rehabilitationists must be able to assess not only the diagnostic entity, but also the person who is sick. The rehabilitation community's understanding of the holism involved in healing and the limitations of conventional therapies creates an openness to consider the usefulness of unconventional therapies. This article explores the role of homeopathy in rehabilitation medicine.
<doc id=Homeopath/23290875> Randomised controlled trials of homeopathy in humans: characterising the research journal literature for systematic review.  A new programme of systematic reviews of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in homeopathy will distinguish important attributes of RCT records, including: placebo controlled versus other-than-placebo (OTP) controlled; individualised versus non-individualised homeopathy; peer-reviewed (PR) versus non peer-reviewed (NPR) sources.(a) To outline the methods used to search and categorise the RCT literature; (b) to report details of the records retrieved; (c) to compare our retrieved records with those reported in two previous systematic reviews (Linde et al., 1997; Shang et al., 2005).Ten major electronic databases were searched for records published up to the end of 2011. A record was accepted for subsequent systematic review if it was a substantive report of a clinical trial of homeopathic treatment or prophylaxis in humans, randomised and controlled, and published in a PR or NPR journal.489 records were potentially eligible: 226 were rejected as non-journal, minor or repeat publications, or lacking randomisation and/or controls and/or a 'homeopathic' intervention; 263 (164 PR, 99 NPR) were acceptable for systematic review. The 263 accepted records comprised 217 (137 PR, 80 NPR) placebo-controlled RCTs, of which 121 were included by, 66 were published after, and 30 were potentially eligible for, but not listed by, Linde or Shang. The 137 PR records of placebo-controlled RCTs comprise 41 on individualised homeopathy and 96 on non-individualised homeopathy.Our findings clarify the RCT literature in homeopathy. The 263 accepted journal papers will be the basis for our forthcoming programme of systematic reviews.Copyright © 2012 The Faculty of Homeopathy. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
<doc id=Homeopath/16815515> Effect of a Homeopathic complex on oestrus induction and hormonal profile in anoestrus cows.  This study was undertaken to evaluate the efficacy of a homeopathic complex in the management of true anoestrus in crossbred cows. Six anoestrus cows were treated with a homeopathic complex (Calcarea phosphorica 30c, Aletris farinosa 30c, Pulsatilla 30c, Aurum muriaticum natronatum 30c, Sepia 30c and Phosphorus 30c in equal proportion, 15 pills twice daily orally for 10 days). Six animals acted as control without any treatment. Treatment was 100% effective in inducing oestrus in anoestrus cows with mean interval of 27.5+/-5.3 days. All animals conceived and overall conception rate was 54.5% with 1.83 services per conception. In the homeopathic complex treated group, increased serum oestradiol concentration (20.88+/-5.60 to 27.80+/-7.28 pg/ml) was observed compared to the pretreatment (11.71+/-2.06 pg/ml) and control value (10.43+/-1.77 to 13.94+/-3.14 pg/ml). The homeopathic complex medicine may be effective and economical in the treatment of true anoestrus condition in cows.
<doc id=Homeopath/12109831> Homeopathy: what is it and is it of value in the care of patients with cancer?  The underlying principles of homeopathy include treating 'like with like' by remedies which are potentized by serial dilution and succussion. These distinguish homeopathy from other forms of alternative or complementary therapy. Conventional scientific wisdom dictates that homeopathy should have no effect above and beyond placebo but experiments on ultra-high dilutions of solutes together with some clinical data suggest the intriguing possibility that it might do in some circumstances. However, most clinical evidence comes from treating relatively minor self-limiting diseases and little comes from treating life-threatening disorders such as cancer. This paper explains the principles of homeopathy and reviews the data on its use in cancer care.
<doc id=Homeopath/19250004> A formal approach to the problem of reproducing experimental effects with homeopathic potencies.  This paper investigates a general concept of reproducibility with regard to its application on experiments with homeopathic potencies.The experimental situation for distinguishing a homeopathic potency and its solvent is described in a formal way. This allows the application of the weak law of large numbers. Experimental arrangements are described in a formal way. This allows conclusions to be drawn about the possible existence of nonlocal influences on an experiment.From a pragmatic as well as from a global point of view, a general concept of reproducibility supports decisions whether or not effects in experiments with homeopathic potencies do exist.
<doc id=Homeopath/11625559> [Notes on several almanachs Abbe Chaupitre].  The author brings additional material to the article by C. Raynal and T. Lefebvre on the Abbe Chaupitre Laboratory published in the current Revue (1999, p. 49-58). It concerns the almanachs published by this firm in 1935, 1936, 1938 and 1939, which constitute an important source for the history of this laboratory, of homeopathy as well as of pharmaceutical advertising.
<doc id=Homeopath/12676033> Gas discharge visualization evaluation of ultramolecular doses of homeopathic medicines under blinded, controlled conditions.  To determine the feasibility of using a computerized biophysical method, gas discharge visualization (GDV), to differentiate ultramolecular doses of homeopathic remedies from solvent controls and from each other.Blinded, randomized assessment of four split samples each of 30c potencies of three homeopathic remedies from different kingdoms, for example, Natrum muriaticum (mineral), Pulsatilla (plant), and Lachesis (animal), dissolved in a 20% alcohol-water solvent versus two different control solutions (that is, solvent with untreated lactose/sucrose pellets and unsuccussed solvent alone).GDV measurements, involving application of a brief electrical impulse at four different voltage levels, were performed over 10 successive images on each of 10 drops from each bottle (total 400 images per test solution per voltage). The dependent variables were the quantified image characteristics of the liquid drops (form coefficient, area, and brightness) from the resultant burst of electron-ion emission and optical radiation in the visual and ultraviolet ranges.The procedure generated measurable images at the two highest voltage levels. At 17 kV, the remedies exhibited overall lower image parameter values compared with solvents (significant for Pulsatilla and Lachesis), as well as differences from solvents in fluctuations over repeated images (exposures to the same voltage). At 24 kV, other patterns emerged, with individual remedies showing higher or lower image parameters compared with other remedies and the solvent controls.GDV technology may provide an electromagnetic probe into the properties of homeopathic remedies as distinguished from solvent controls. However, the present findings also highlight the need for additional research to evaluate factors that may affect reproducibility of results.
<doc id=Homeopath/12848257> Complementary medicine: evidence base, competence to practice and regulation.  This paper describes the current status and evidence base for acupuncture, homeopathy, herbal and manipulative medicine, as well as the regulatory framework within which these therapies are provided. It also explores the present role of the Royal College of Physicians' Subcommittee on Complementary and Alternative Medicine (CAM) in relation to these developments. A number of CAM professions have encouraged the Royal College of Physicians Subcommittee to act as a reference point for their discussions with the conventional medical profession and the subcomittee believes that they are able to fulfil this function.
<doc id=Homeopath/19420957> Use of complementary and alternative medicine in departments of obstetrics in Germany.  This nationwide study aimed to assess the use of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) methods in German departments of obstetrics.All German departments of obstetrics were identified and were sent a questionnaire designed to assess which CAM methods, if any, they used during childbirth, how frequently, and why. SPSS software was used for statistical analyses (Spearman's bivariate correlation, cross-tabulation, and Pearson's chi-square test).The questionnaires were returned by 40.3% (381/946) of the identified departments. The most commonly used CAM therapy was acupuncture (available in 97.3% (366/376) of departments) followed by homeopathy (offered in 93.4%) and aromatherapy (available in 76.6%). Most decisions regarding CAM use were made by midwives; only decisions on acupuncture were taken by obstetricians and midwives. Reasons given for using CAM were patient demand and perceived efficacy of CAM, particularly by midwives. Obstetricians were only partly convinced of the efficacy of CAM methods and their conviction varied with the type of unit they worked in.CAM methods are widely used in German departments of obstetrics despite lacking evidence of effectiveness. Efficacy, side effects and consequences of CAM use should be assessed using the mandatory German quality assurance measures and birth surveys. CAM use elsewhere also merits further study.Copyright (c) 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.
<doc id=Homeopath/18186743> Complementary and alternative remedies: an additional source of potential systemic nickel exposure.  Systemic contact dermatitis from nickel has been reported from a number of sources including medical devices and following experimental oral exposure.To identify other potential sources of systemic nickel exposure.The internet and published medical literature were searched for complementary and alternative remedies which contain nickel.We identified and evaluated sources of nickel exposure in 4 homeopathic preparations, which are advertised to treat common skin diseases, as well as in a number of other homeopathic remedies, several herbal products and multivitamin mineral complexes.Complementary and alternative remedies are an additional source of systemic nickel exposure and at highest doses the potential risk for systemic contact dermatitis in nickel allergic patients should be considered.
<doc id=Homeopath/18439969> Petroleum: a series of 25 cases.  This study is based on 25 well documented reports of cases which responded well to treatment with Petroleum. Materia medica data were compared with results in contemporary clinical practice. Many patients had characteristic skin problems; children often had recurrent or chronic upper respiratory tract problems. The most prominent mental feature is a quiet, withdrawn or stubborn disposition. The mental symptoms may be difficult to recognise. Detailed documentation in daily practice can be helpful for preserving data of the effect of a medicine; confirmation of statements given in materia medica; improving understanding of homeopathic medicines and differentiating the indications for medicines.
<doc id=Homeopath/2008219> [Alternative treatment methods in rheumatic diseases; a literature review].  To evaluate the effectiveness of several types of complementary medicine in patients with rheumatic diseases, a literature search was performed. Clinical trials, blind or open, comparing the effectiveness of forms of complementary medicine with that of placebo or another control therapy in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, soft tissue rheumatism and the fibromyalgia syndrome were selected until half of 1989, using electronic databases. Abstracts and summaries were excluded. The investigation was performed at the department of rheumatology of the Medisch Spectrum Twente hospital at Enschede in cooperation with the department of internal diseases of the Sint Radboud hospital at Nijmegen. For each type of complementary treatment, the results of all the clinical trials were summarized. Furthermore, the placebo-controlled trials were graded according to convincing trials or trials that seemed to be less valid and/or difficult to interpret. Data concerning acupuncture, balneotherapy, dietary measures, enzymic therapy, Seatone, homeopathy, manual therapy and fever few were found. Of these types of complementary medicine in rheumatic diseases, we found no convincing prove that they are more effective than the control or placebo treatment. A considerable number of the studies however can be criticized. It is necessary to perform further studies on the effect of frequently used types of complementary medicine in patients with rheumatic diseases, by or in cooperation with the physicians or paramedics who prescribe or perform these kinds of treatment. This is nearly always possible; directives are given to realize further studies of this kind. If a particular treatment proves to be no more effective than placebo treatment, its use should be discouraged.
<doc id=Homeopath/15572867> [Influence of homeopathically processed coenzyme q10 on proliferation and redifferentiation of endothelial cells].  Coenzyme Q10 (Co Q10) is vital for regulating cell metabolism and cell proliferation. The controlled proliferation of cells is prerequisite for the regeneration of tissues.The aim of this study was to clarify whether homeopathically processed Co Q10 has an influence on the proliferation of freshly seeded endothelial cells, on the division rate of differentiated confluent endothelial cells, and on the redifferentiation of differentiated endothelial cells in vitro.By the determination of cell numbers, the influence of Co Q10 on the proliferation of undifferentiated endothelial cells from the human umbilical vein was examined. For this assay different potencies of Co Q10 and freshly seeded endothelial cells were used. Prior to the proliferation assay the in vitro cytotoxic concentrations of Co Q10 were determined. The influence of Co Q10 on the division rate of differentiated confluent endothelial cells was determined by measuring the intake of the base analogue bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU). For the testing of differentiation, the expression of the von Willebrand factor (vWF) - the marker protein typical for endothelial cells - was observed while Co Q10 was present. A flow cytometric assay was used for the analyses.While only the D5 potency showed toxic effects, the other tested potencies of Co Q10 did not show any cytotoxicity. The potencies D7-D10 of Co Q10, especially the D8 potency, caused an increase in the proliferation of growing endothelial cells. By contrast, Co Q10 (D8) had no influence on the rate of incorporation of BrdU into confluent, contact-inhibited, and differentiated endothelial cells. In the case of confluent dedifferentiated cells incubated with Co Q10 (D8), no increase in the expression of the vWF was observed, either.Homeopathically processed Co Q10 (D8) has a stimulating influence on the proliferation of growing cells in vitro. This confirms its function in the regulation of cell metabolism and cell proliferation. The stimulating influence, however, does not extend to the redifferentiation process. Co Q10 has no effect on the low division rate of subconfluent and of confluent, contact-inhibited, differentiated endothelial cells. Furthermore the expression of endothelial cell-specific differentiation antigens on dedifferentiated endothelial cells is not influenced by Co Q10.
<doc id=Homeopath/15532698> Effect of Atropa belladonna and Echinacea angustifolia in homeopathic dilution on experimental peritonitis.  Atropa belladonna and Echinacea angustifolia have been used in homeopathy as modulators of inflammatory processes, in simple potency or 'accord of potencies', as recommended by homotoxicology. We evaluated their effects on leukocyte migration and macrophage activity induced by experimental peritonitis in vivo. Mice were injected (i.p.) with LPS (1.0mg/kg) and treated (0.3ml/10g/day, s.c.) with different commercial forms of these medicines. Echinacea angustifolia D4--a simple potency preparation--and Belladonna Homaccord, Belladonna Injeel, Belladonna Injeel Forte, Echinacea Injeel and Echinacea Injeel Forte--all in 'accord of potencies'--were tested. The association of A. belladonna and E. angustifolia in 'accord of potencies' produced an increase of polymorphonuclear cell migration (Kruskal-Wallis, P = 0.03) and a decrease of mononuclear cell percentages (Kruskal-Wallis, P < or = 0.04), when compared with control, mainly in preparations containing low potencies. The proportion of degenerate leukocytes was lower in the treated groups, compared to a control group (P < or = 0.05). The treated groups showed increased phagocytosis (P < or = 0.05), mainly in preparations containing high potencies. Our results suggest that A. belladonna and E. angustifolia, when prepared in 'accord of potencies', modulate peritoneal inflammatory reaction and have a cytoprotective action on leukocytes.
<doc id=Homeopath/26828003> Bone computed tomography mineral content evaluation in chickens: effects of substances in homeopathic concentration.  Ninety-six cobb race chickens were equally divided in 4 groups and randomly assigned to receive a standard treatment feed + homeopathic concentrations of Symphytum (S.) officinalis (9CH), or standard treatment feed + homeopathic concentrations of Tricalcarea (4CH), or standard treatment feed + homeopathic concentrations of Calcarea (C.) carbonica (30CH) or a placebo (the same feed but without any homeopathic compound) in order to assess the ability of the homeopathic compounds to increase the concentration of calcium hydroxyapatite in the sternal spongy bone tissue. We measured the concentration of calcium hydroxyapatite in the sternal spongy bone tissue of all chickens by means of a computed tomography (CT).30%, 36% and 63% increase of sternum spongy-bone mineralization was observed after a 2 years period in the treatment groups with S. officinalis (9CH), Tricalcarea (4CH) (*P < 0.05) and C. carbonica (30CH) (***P < 0.001) respectively.Bone mineralization is usually low in battery chickens reared in commercial poultry-sheds, creating a weakness of the whole animal supporting apparatus. Homeopathic preparations with bone-tissue tropism may improve their health quality.Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.
<doc id=Homeopath/18232142> A study on acceptability of Indian system of medicine and homeopathy in India: results from the State of West Bengal.  Institute for Research in Medical Statistics, Indian Council of Medical Research, Delhi undertook a study to obtain all India estimate of utilization of Indian Systems of Medicine and Homeopathy (ISM&H).The study covered 35 districts spreading over 19 States of India. In this article, results for the State of West Bengal are being presented. Selected districts in West Bengal were Midnapore and Darjeeling where about 2400 sick persons from 2000 households were studied.About 20% sick persons actually availed ISM&H treatment in the State. Majority availed Homeopathy followed by Ayurvedic medicines. Use of Unani and Siddha is negligible in this State. In case of minor ailments, ISM&H was preferred by about 15% in Darjeeling district and 42% in Midnapore district. In case of serious illnesses, about 12% in Darjeeling district preferred ISM&H, but very few (about 5%) preferred this in Midnapore. 39.4% and 20.8% of sick persons sought treatment from traditional healers in Midnapore and Darjeeling district respectively. Jaundice, snakebite, dog bite and 'bone setting' were some of the conditions for which traditional healers were mostly visited. Sizable proportion (30%-89%) of sick persons used various 'kitchen remedies' for conditions like indigestion, loose motion, constipation, fever, body ache, sprain and cough & cold.
<doc id=Homeopath/24575674> Damning with faint praise: how homoeopaths talk about conventional medicine with their patients.  Homoeopathy is one of the most widely used forms of complementary medicine in the West. However, its methods and philosophical underpinnings are basically polarized in relation to those of conventional medicine. Many homoeopathic patients choose to continue using conventional medicine while they receive homoeopathy, but from a homoeopathic perspective, these treatments are often regarded as undesirable or even damaging. This article will utilize the principles of conversation analysis (CA) to explore points in homoeopathic consultations where practitioners address their patients' use of conventional medications. It will be suggested that approaches which display a degree of incorporation are preferred to those which imply categorical rejection. By not emphasizing the underlying tensions between conventional and homoeopathic paradigms, and displaying an adaptive and inclusive approach, homoeopathy essentially sets itself up as a parallel (i.e. equal) system, rather than one that is purely in opposition to the dominant medical model.
<doc id=Homeopath/18354993> [Courses of cure: the case of French patients of Samuel and Melanie Hahnemann (1834-1868)].  Based on the letters sent by French patients to Hahnemann and his wife (or written about them), this essay focuses on the behaviour of patients towards treatment rather than on their representations and interpretations of illness and health. Despite the fact that we don't know exactly who the authors of these letters were, it is clear that they all hope to obtain some of Hahnemann's medicines. The well-known demand for medicine at the beginning of the 19th Century was reinforced by the mystery surrounding homeopathic remedies and the specific way they were made available. Relying on theories which lent an important role to the nerves and the patient's character to explain the origins of sickness, patients hoped that Hahnemann and his new doctrine would be able to change both their life and their psychical characteristics. One can conclude that for the authors of such letters, writing about illness could be a means to construct new behaviour patterns and new attitudes towards health and sickness, rather than an illustration of existing medical, social and literary models.
<doc id=Asthma/15247518> [Studies on airway hyperresponsiveness by the Astograph(r) method in asthmatics and young adult non-asthmatic asymptomatics].  We investigated airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) by the continuous inhalation method using an Astograph(R) in 105 asthmatics and 141 non-asthmatic asymptomatics. The range of Dmin (1 U=one minute inhalation of 1 mg/ml of methacholine) of asthmatics was 0.001 to 28.70 U, and that of adjusted Dmin of non-asthmatic asymptomatics was 0.28 to 190 U; thus, an apparent overlap was recognized in the distributions of Dmin. Ninety-five percent of asthmatics had a Dmin lower than 7 U, and 95% of non-asthmatic asymptomatics had a Dmin higher than 0.9 U. Presuming that almost all asthmatics had AHR, it was inferred that nearly half of non-asthmatic asymptomatics had AHR, too. Comparison with previous reports suggests that AHR in healthy people may be increasing generally. When Dmin is determined to be>7 U by the Astograph(R) method, it is likely that the patient does not have asthma. When a patient has a Dmin<0.9 U, it is highly probable that the patient has asthma.
<doc id=Asthma/6134181> Stimulation of alveolar macrophages in asthmatic patients after local provocation test.  Dermatophagoîdes pteronyssinus allergen was instilled into the alveolar space of 7 allergic asthmatic patients during bronchoalveolar lavage. beta-glucuronidase concentration in the bronchoalveolar fluid from the challenged lung became significantly higher than that in the opposite control lung (3.90 +/- 1.88 nmol/h versus 0.86 +/- 0.55). The intracellular level of beta-glucuronidase in the alveolar macrophages in the challenged lung was 40.3% lower than that in the control lung. In 3 controls intracellular concentrations of beta-glucuronidase were similar before and after allergenic challenge and no enzyme activity could be detected in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. These results suggest that alveolar instillation of an allergen in asthmatic patients rapidly stimulates alveolar macrophages, which may be involved in immediate hypersensitivity reactions in asthma.
<doc id=Asthma/18479529> The effect of ambient air pollution on respiratory health of school children: a panel study.  Adverse respiratory effects of particulate air pollution have been identified by epidemiological studies. We aimed to examine the health effects of ambient particulate air pollution from wood burning on school-age students in Christchurch, New Zealand, and to explore the utility of urine and exhaled breath condensate biomarkers of exposure in this population.A panel study of 93 male students (26 with asthma) living in the boarding house of a metropolitan school was undertaken in the winter of 2004. Indoor and outdoor pollution data was continuously monitored. Longitudinal assessment of lung function (FEV1 and peak flow) and symptoms were undertaken, with event studies of high pollution on biomarkers of exposure (urinary 1-hydroxypyrene) and effect (exhaled breath condensate (EBC) pH and hydrogen peroxide concentration).Peak levels of air pollution were associated with small but statistically significant effects on lung function in the asthmatic students, but not healthy students. No significant effect of pollution could be seen either on airway inflammation and oxidative stress either in healthy students or students with asthma. Minor increases in respiratory symptoms were associated with high pollution exposure. Urinary 1-hydroxypyrene levels were raised in association with pollution events by comparison with low pollution control days.There is no significant effect of ambient wood-smoke particulate air pollution on lung function of healthy school-aged students, but a small effect on respiratory symptoms. Asthmatic students show small effects of peak pollution levels on lung function. Urinary 1-hydroxypyrene shows potential as a biomarker of exposure to wood smoke in this population; however measurement of EBC pH and hydrogen peroxide appears not to be useful for assessment of population health effects of air pollution.Some of the data presented in this paper has previously been published in Kingham and co-workers Atmospheric Environment, 2006 Jan; 40: 338-347 (details of pollution exposure), and Cavanagh and co-workers Sci Total Environ. 2007 Mar 1;374(1):51-9 (urine hydroxypyrene data).
<doc id=Asthma/9139775> Alternative therapies for asthma.  Many traditional drugs and techniques are gaining popularity in the treatment of asthma, although scientific proof of their value is usually inadequate. Alternative remedies, including herbs and nonmedication management techniques, have not been shown to be useful primary measures, but they still appeal to patients who feel unsatisfied with orthodox medicines. Dietary modification may be worth considering; evidence suggests that salt reduction and magnesium supplementation have value in reducing asthmatic symptoms. The evidence on the role of steroid-sparing agents is not encouraging, but administering steroids once a day in the mid-afternoon may provide benefit. New aerosol techniques are appearing, but judgement is needed to select the best device for each medication as well as for each patient.
<doc id=Asthma/25277142> Clinical effects of vitamin D in children with asthma.  Both asthma and vitamin D deficiency are common among children. The results from studies examining the relationship between them are contradictory. The aim of this study is to determine the relationship between the clinical parameters of asthma and vitamin D status in children.One hundred and twenty children diagnosed with asthma and followed-up in our hospital were included in the study. The control group included 74 children with no evidence of allergic disease. The eosinophil counts, IgE levels and serum 25 OH cholecalciferol [25(OH)D] levels were measured.The patient group consisted of 73 (60.8%) males and 47 (39.2%) females with a mean age of 4.4 ± 1.2 years. There was no significant difference between the patient and control groups with respect to gender and age. The mean 25(OH)D level was 21.49 ± 7.74 ng/ml in the study group and 23.94 ± 8.97 ng/ml in the control group, and this difference was not significant (p = 0.094). The patients with asthma were grouped according to their vitamin D status as 'deficient' (group 1), 'insufficient' (group 2) and 'normal' (group 3). The sociodemographic features, duration of illness, number of hospitalizations, number of sensitivities to allergens, eosinophil count and serum IgE levels were not found to be different between the groups. However, the total number of exacerbations, asthma severity and systemic glucocorticoid need in the previous year were significantly higher in the deficiency group (p < 0.05).Vitamin D levels were not significantly different in patients with asthma. Vitamin D deficiency was common in the study group as well as in the control group. The clinical severity of disease, the number of exacerbations and the systemic glucocorticoid need were related to vitamin D level.© 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel.
<doc id=Asthma/8766194> Paradoxical bronchospasm and cutaneous rash after metered-dose inhaled bronchodilators.  The authors describe a case of paradoxical bronchospasm with laryngospasm and cutaneous rash occurring in an asthmatic woman after the use, via metered-dose inhaler, of different bronchodilators containing soy-derived excipients. It is noteworthy that the patient was not affected by soy allergy. After a short review of the relevant literature, the authors consider the possible aetiopathogenetic factors and outline the importance of this rare adverse reaction in the care of asthmatic patients.
<doc id=Asthma/8270586> Electroconvulsive therapy in patients taking theophylline.  Initiating a course of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) in patients taking theophylline has been associated with status epilepticus and consequent brain damage or even death. However, some patients with severe pulmonary conditions may both require theophylline and be seriously depressed enough to warrant ECT. Deciding whether to use ECT in such patients is a fairly common clinical problem.The records of seven patients taking theophylline during nine courses of ECT were reviewed to ascertain whether inordinately long seizures occurred.In 77 documented seizures, there was one 190-second seizure as measured by EEG. All others were shorter than 100 seconds, and mean motor and EEG seizure lengths were comparable with those reported in the literature.Theophylline coadministration is a risk factor for prolonged seizures in patients starting a course of ECT. However, in most severely depressed, medication-refractory patients, a course of ECT can be undertaken with safety. Precautions that can decrease the risk of prolonged seizures are discussed.
<doc id=Asthma/15345196> Occupational asthma due to low molecular weight agents.  Occupational asthma is defined as variable airflow obstruction and airways hyperresponsiveness caused by exposure to agents present in the workplace. Low molecular weight agents such as isocyanates, aldehydes, anhydrides, colophony, dyes, persulphate, amines, acrylates and metals are steadily increasing as causative agents of occupational asthma. Isocyanates, aldehydes and anhydrides my cause sensitisation through an IgE mediated response in some workers. These agents act as haptens which combine with a carrier protein to form a complete antigen. Assays for the detection of specific IgE are standardized for very few agents and have a good specificity, but poor sensitivity. The diagnosis of occupational asthma relies not only on a suggestive hystory showing that asthma is caused or exacerbated specifically by work exposure, but in most cases needs to be confirmed by objective means. Combined monitoring of lung function parameters, such as peak expiratory flow rate at the work site and non specific bronchial hyperresponsiveness during and away from exposure, is necessary. The gold standard for confirming a diagnosis in an individual worker still remains the specific bronchoprovocation test, which has now reached a high degree of sensitivity, specificity and reproducibility for agents such a s isocyanates. In occupation asthma due to low molecular weight agents there are no individual risk factors which could predict the susceptibility to develop the disease. The primary prevention is based on appropriate interventions tn the workplace. The strict medical surveillance of workers may allow the early diagnosis and removal from further exposure in order to prevent morbidity and disability.
<doc id=Asthma/16192448> Regional lung deposition and bronchodilator response as a function of beta2-agonist particle size.  Aerosol particle size influences the extent, distribution, and site of inhaled drug deposition within the airways.We hypothesized that targeting albuterol to regional airways by altering aerosol particle size could optimize inhaled bronchodilator delivery.In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, 12 subjects with asthma (FEV1, 76.8 +/- 11.4% predicted) inhaled technetium-99m-labeled monodisperse albuterol aerosols (30-microg dose) of 1.5-, 3-, and 6-microm mass median aerodynamic diameter, at slow (30-60 L/min) and fast (> 60 L/min) inspiratory flows. Lung and extrathoracic radioaerosol deposition were quantified using planar gamma-scintigraphy. Pulmonary function and tolerability measurements were simultaneously assessed. Clinical efficacy was also compared with unlabeled monodisperse albuterol (15-microg dose) and 200 microg metered-dose inhaler (MDI) albuterol.Smaller particles achieved greater total lung deposition (1.5 microm [56%], 3 microm [50%], and 6 microm [46%]), farther distal airways penetration (0.79, 0.60, and 0.36, respective penetration index), and more peripheral lung deposition (25, 17, and 10%, respectively). However, larger particles (30-microg dose) were more efficacious and achieved greater bronchodilation than 200 microg MDI albuterol (deltaFEV1 [ml]: 6 microm [551], 3 microm [457], 1.5 microm [347], MDI [494]). Small particles were exhaled more (1.5 microm [22%], 3 microm [8%], 6 microm [2%]), whereas greater oropharyngeal deposition occurred with large particles (15, 31, and 43%, respectively). Faster inspiratory flows decreased total lung deposition and increased oropharyngeal deposition for the larger particles, with less bronchodilation. A shift in aerosol distribution to the proximal airways was observed for all particles.Regional targeting of inhaled beta2-agonist to the proximal airways is more important than distal alveolar deposition for bronchodilation. Altering intrapulmonary deposition through aerosol particle size can appreciably enhance inhaled drug therapy and may have implications for developing future inhaled treatments.
<doc id=Asthma/1948865> [Acute admissions of asthmatic patients. Registration of acute admissions of patients with asthma at the pediatric clinic, Regionsykehuset, Trondheim 1988].  In 1988 there were 179 emergency admissions to the Department of Paediatrics, Regional Hospital, Trondheim, because of asthma. These comprised 22% of the total number of 812 admissions to the emergency unit this year. 178 of the 179 patients' records were found and used in this registration. 46% of the admissions referred to children who had previously been admitted for asthma. Half of the 179 admissions referred to children under 2.5 years of age, and 69% were boys. The main precipitating cause of the admissions was preceding respiratory infection. In 71% of the admissions the child had a family history of atopy. 125 patient records with information about the home environment showed that in 50% of these cases, the children were exposed to cigarette smoking and 34% had domestic animals at home. In 67% of the admissions the patients were taking antiasthmatic medication prior to hospitalization. The most frequently used drugs were Beta-2-agonists in mixture formulas. Less than 7% of the drugs used were corticosteroids. Management of childhood asthma may be improved and emergency admissions prevented by motivating parents to avoid potent allergens and exposure to tobacco smoke at home, supplemented by better education of patient and parents in antiasthmatic medication.
<doc id=Asthma/2117170> New aspects of isocyanate asthma.  Air concentration of isocyanates are associated with the frequency of induced diseases. Asthma, bronchitis and rhinitis, chronic obstructive lung disease, and allergic alveolitis, respectively, were observed in exposed workers. Inhalation challenge tests with isocyanates found some 14% of symptomatic persons immunologically sensitized. At and above current threshold limit values (10 ppb) there is a risk of lung function deterioration also in asymptomatic workers.
<doc id=Asthma/26106203> An Asthma Protocol Improved Adherence to Evidence-Based Guidelines for Pediatric Subjects With Status Asthmaticus in the Emergency Department.  In our institution's pediatric emergency department, adherence to evidence-based asthma guidelines was noted to be suboptimal for patients with asthma exacerbations. We hypothesized that an evidence-based asthma protocol would improve time to treatment and adherence to National Institutes of Health guidelines for patients presenting to the emergency department with status asthmaticus.Subjects at our institution were retrospectively identified through an electronic medical record search following institutional review board approval. The asthma protocol was initiated in February 2012. All pediatric subjects who received continuous albuterol in the emergency department before (February 26, 2009, to February 22, 2012, n = 193) and after (February 23, 2012, to December 31, 2012, n = 68) protocol initiation were analyzed. The post-protocol data were collected as part of routine quality assurance monitoring with a target of 60 post-protocol subjects. Subjects were identified at the end of each month, which resulted in a total of 68 subjects being included. Primary outcomes measured included time to initial treatment with inhaled bronchodilator therapy, time to treatment with systemic corticosteroids, and total number of ipratropium bromide treatments delivered.Two-hundred sixty-one subjects (7.1 ± 4.6 y of age, 66% male) were included. Demographics were similar in the pre- and post-protocol groups. Compared with the pre-protocol group, more subjects in the post-protocol group received bronchodilators within 30 min (60% vs 77%, P = .02), at least one dose of ipratropium bromide (55% vs 87%, P < .001), 3 doses of ipratropium bromide (14% vs 54%, P < .001), and corticosteroids within 60 min (62% vs 77%, P = .04). There were no statistically significant differences between the pre- and post-protocol cohorts in the mean time to first bronchodilator treatment (32 ± 41 vs 26 ± 52 min, P = .34), mean time to corticosteroid administration (74 ± 68 vs 54 ± 63 min, P = .06), or mean emergency department length of stay (342 ± 143 vs 364 ± 183 min, P = .31).An asthma protocol resulted in improved adherence to National Institutes of Health guidelines in children with status asthmaticus and improved efficiency in the administration of rescue bronchodilator and systemic corticosteroid therapy.Copyright © 2015 by Daedalus Enterprises.
<doc id=Asthma/12727598> Environmentally relevant metal and transition metal ions enhance Fc epsilon RI-mediated mast cell activation.  Upon contact with allergen, sensitized mast cells release highly active proinflammatory mediators. Allergen-mediated mast cell activation is an important mechanism in the pathogenesis of atopic asthma. Asthmatic patients are especially susceptible to air pollution. Epidemiologic studies found a positive correlation between severity of symptoms among asthmatic patients and the level of particulate matter (PM) in the air. Among the constituents of PM are metals and transition metals, which could mediate some of its adverse effects on human health. We sought to determine the effect of metal and transition metal ions on allergen-mediated mast cell activation. We observed that several metal and transition metal ions activated mast cells and enhanced allergen-mediated mast cell activation. Thus, Al(3+), Cd(2+), and Sr(2+) induced release of granule-associated N-acetyl-ss-d-hexosaminidase, and Al(3+) and Ni(2+) enhanced antigen-mediated release. Metal and transition metal ions also induced significant secretion of interleukin (IL)-4 and increased antigen-mediated IL-4 secretion in mast cells. These effects of metal and transition metal ions on mast cells were observed at concentrations that do not result in direct cytotoxicity and might be relevant for environmental exposure. Thus, metals and transition metals could increase the level of allergen-mediated mast cell activation, which might be one of the mechanisms mediating exacerbation of allergen-driven asthma symptoms by air pollution.
<doc id=Asthma/15269335> Nitric oxide in health and disease of the respiratory system.  During the past decade a plethora of studies have unravelled the multiple roles of nitric oxide (NO) in airway physiology and pathophysiology. In the respiratory tract, NO is produced by a wide variety of cell types and is generated via oxidation of l-arginine that is catalyzed by the enzyme NO synthase (NOS). NOS exists in three distinct isoforms: neuronal NOS (nNOS), inducible NOS (iNOS), and endothelial NOS (eNOS). NO derived from the constitutive isoforms of NOS (nNOS and eNOS) and other NO-adduct molecules (nitrosothiols) have been shown to be modulators of bronchomotor tone. On the other hand, NO derived from iNOS seems to be a proinflammatory mediator with immunomodulatory effects. The concentration of this molecule in exhaled air is abnormal in activated states of different inflammatory airway diseases, and its monitoring is potentially a major advance in the management of, e.g., asthma. Finally, the production of NO under oxidative stress conditions secondarily generates strong oxidizing agents (reactive nitrogen species) that may modulate the development of chronic inflammatory airway diseases and/or amplify the inflammatory response. The fundamental mechanisms driving the altered NO bioactivity under pathological conditions still need to be fully clarified, because their regulation provides a novel target in the prevention and treatment of chronic inflammatory diseases of the airways.
<doc id=Asthma/11574751> Allergy to dermatophagoides in a group of Spanish gypsies: genetic restrictions.  Spanish gypsies have traditionally lived as nomads, a reason why few epidemiological studies were done in this ethnic group. However, the high prevalence of asthmatic diseases demonstrated in a population residing in the North of Spain induces us to analyse whether it was due to the influence of genetic loci previously implicated in other population studies as causing the disorders.DRB1* and DQB1* HLA class II, TCR-Valpha8.1, FcepsilonRI-beta Rsa I exon 7 and intron 2, TNF-beta (LTalpha-Nco I) and CD14, were tested for association with asthma and atopy by multiple regression analysis, in 5 families comprising 87 individuals.Significant associations were found with DQB1*02 (p = 0.02) and DQB1*0301 (p = 0.008) and elevated levels of total serum IgE. A negative association (p = 0.02) was found between total serum IgE and DRB1*14. FcepsilonRI-beta Rsa I-In2 allele 1 was associated with high levels of total serum IgE (p = 0.04). Levels of Der p 1 IgE antibodies were negatively associated with DRB1*11-DQB1*0301 (p = 0.007), and positively with TCR Valpha-8 allele 1 (p = 0.04) and with FcepsilonRI-beta Rsa I-In2 allele 1 (p = 0.009).Our results do not show any association between asthma and the genetic loci studied although they do suggest the existence of multiple genetic influences on the allergic response in these families.Copyright 2001 S. Karger AG, Basel
<doc id=Asthma/17631412> Feasibility and acceptability of a computerised system with automated reminders for prescribing behaviour in primary care.  To evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of a computer reminder system (CRS) to improve prescribing behaviour in general practice and to explore the strengths and weaknesses of a reminder system. One group of GPs received reminders on cholesterol lowering drugs, the other group on antibiotics, asthma and COPD drugs.Process evaluation of the computer reminder system being used by 53 GPs in 20 practices, by means of an analysis of the research database of the CRS. In addition, a questionnaire and semi-structured face-to-face interview were conducted with all GP practices, two project leaders, and one technical consultant.The strategy was largely carried out as planned, although the development period for the CRS had to be extended. Nine percent of the GPs dropped out. We found a significant learning curve without extinguishing effect (p=0.03) for the antibiotics reminders. The questionnaire showed that, in general, GPs were satisfied with the user-friendliness and the content of the different types of reminders, but less satisfied with certain specific technical performance issues of the system. The GPs reported mixed feelings towards the CRS in the interviews. They were generally positive about the guidelines themselves, but negative regarding to the organisational context and the method of implementing the CRS. GPs stated that they sometimes manipulated the system to bypass reminders. Interviews with the project leaders and technical consultant revealed barriers to cooperation and miscommunication between the different parties, and technical problems with multiple updates of the GP information system and the operating system.This process evaluation demonstrated that the implementation of the CRS was mainly carried out as planned, but the subjective experience of working with the CRS was not only positive. Participating GPs had mixed feelings, and quite a number of barriers need to be addressed to facilitate large-scale implementation of the CRS. Costs cannot be neglected, so it is important to analyse the balance between costs and effects.
<doc id=Asthma/21722846> Phenotypes of refractory/severe asthma.  The acid test of phenotyping is that it leads either to a clinically useful or mechanistically important insight. Phenotypes may change over time, but the exact definition of a phenotype shift is unclear. Methods of phenotyping are either investigator driven, in which a priori prejudices are applied to the data, or (semi) objective, in which mathematical techniques or systems biology approaches are applied to the dataset. However, the composition of the dataset is driven by investigator prejudice. Phenotyping is likely most useful in severe asthma, because mild and moderate asthma responds to simple treatments, and no great subtlety is required. Our non-evidence based approach is to define the subpopulation of genuine severe, therapy-resistant asthmatics from the generality of problematic severe asthma. We then investigate them invasively with bronchoscopy and a steroid trial using intramuscular triamcinolone to determine the nature of any inflammatory process; whether inflammation and symptoms are concordant or discordant; whether the inflammatory process is steroid resistant or sensitive; and whether the child has persistent airflow limitation. Other possibly relevant phenotypes include the child with severe exacerbations; brittle asthma; and severe asthma with fungal sensitization. Severe, therapy resistant asthma is a disparate disease, and only international uniform approaches, carefully characterising the children as a prelude to focussed clinical trials will allow progress to be made, and vindicate (or otherwise) our suggested approach.Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
<doc id=Asthma/24779482> Self-management behaviors in older adults with asthma: associations with health literacy.  To examine self-management behaviors, including medication adherence and inhaler technique, in older adults with asthma and their association with health literacy.Observational cohort study.Primary care and pulmonary specialty practices in two tertiary academic medical centers and three federally qualified health centers in New York, New York, and Chicago, Illinois.Adults with moderate or severe persistent asthma aged 60 and older (N = 433).Outcomes were adherence to asthma controller medications, metered dose inhaler (MDI) and dry powder inhaler (DPI) techniques, having a usual asthma physician, and avoidance of four common triggers. Health literacy was assessed using the Short Test of Functional Health Literacy in Adults.The mean age was 67, and 36% of participants had marginal or low health literacy. Adherence was low (38%) overall and worse in individuals with low health literacy (22%) than in those with adequate literacy (47%, P < .001) and after adjusting for demographic factors and health status (odds ratio (OR) = 0.48, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.31-0.73). Similarly, inhaler technique was poor; only 38% and 54% had good MDI and DPI technique, respectively. Technique was worse in those with low health literacy (MDI technique: OR = 0.57, 95% CI = 0.38-0.85; DPI technique: OR = 0.42, 95% CI = 0.25-0.71). Asthma self-monitoring and avoidance of triggers occurred infrequently but were less consistently associated with low health literacy.Adherence to medications and inhaler technique are poor in older adults with asthma and worse in those with low health literacy. Clinicians should routinely assess controller medication adherence and inhaler technique and use low-literacy communication strategies to support self-management in older adults with asthma.© 2014, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation © 2014, The American Geriatrics Society.
<doc id=Asthma/2573297> Allergenicity of Chironomidae in asthmatic patients.  In order to clarify the relation between asthma and Chironomidae, we examined the cross-reactivity between Chironomidae and other common allergens. We noted significant correlations between positive skin tests with Chironomidae and with other allergens. The radioallergosorbent inhibition test, however, suggested that there may be no cross-reactivity or, if any, only very low cross-reactivity between midge allergens and mite, house dust (HD), silk, shrimp, or mosquito allergens.
<doc id=Asthma/10805201> Hyperthyroidism and asthma.  Two patients presented with new onset of thyrotoxicosis and they then developed episodic wheezing a few months afterward. The asthmatic attacks improved when the patients were rendered in a euthyroid state with treatment. The present paper discusses the relationship between two diseases, hyperthyroidism and asthma, and the underlying factors potentially contributing to their conditions. The present findings suggest that asthma may develop in a susceptible individual with hyperthyroidism and it is possible that the reactive oxygen species may be a contributory factor in exacerbating wheezing in our hyperthyroid patients.
<doc id=Asthma/22074945> Single maintenance and reliever therapy (SMART) for asthma.  Around 5.2 million people in the UK are estimated to have asthma.1 Mortality and hospitalisation rates associated with the condition fell significantly in the last 20 years of the 20th century, but have not fallen further since then.2 In 2006, there were over 1,000 asthma deaths and around 78,000 hospital admissions due to asthma in the UK.2 One pharmacological strategy that has been developed recently to try to improve asthma management is the use of single maintenance and reliever therapy (SMART). This involves the patient using a single inhaler containing a corticosteroid (budesonide) and a long-acting beta(2) agonist (LABA; formoterol), for regular maintenance treatment, but also for additional 'rescue' use on an as-needed basis. Combination inhaler use is claimed to improve adherence, and is now included in UK asthma guidelines.3 Here we assess the evidence for single combination therapy, its relative effectiveness in comparison with other approaches, and whether or under what circumstances it should be used.
<doc id=Asthma/7681266> Mite-allergen exposure and spontaneous histamine release in monosensitive and polysensitive mite-allergic patients.  Forty-three patients allergic to mites and suffering mainly from asthma were recruited: 25 were mite-monosensitive and 18 were polysensitive, as determined by skin tests and specific serum IgE determinations with various allergens. In vitro spontaneous histamine release (SHR) by washed blood basophils was measured once or several times for each patient. Throughout this study, the mean periods of high and low mite-allergen exposure were defined on the basis of relative indoor humidity and temperature data. For the mite-monosensitive patients, there was a significant increase in mean SHR during the season of high mite-allergen exposure as compared to the months of lower mite-allergen presence (P < 0.002). No significant difference between mean SHR values was observed when comparing the monosensitive group during the season of high mite-allergen exposure with polysensitive patients (allergic to mite and pollen) during the period of exposure to both allergens. Differences in mean SHR reported here emphasize the positive relationship between intense allergen exposure and the in vitro SHR increase in blood basophils of mite-allergic patients.
<doc id=Asthma/19890749> [GA2LEN (Global Allergy and Asthma European Network), the perspective of the German speaking centers].  Allergic diseases represent a major health problem in Europe. They are increasing in prevalence, severity and costs. GA2LEN (Global Allergy and Asthma European Network), an FP6 Network of Excellence, was created in 2005 as a vehicle to ensure excellence in research bringing together research and clinical institutions to combat fragmentation in the European research area and to tackle allergy as a whole. GA2LEN benefited greatly from the voluntary efforts of researchers who are strongly committed to this model of pan-European collaboration. The network was organized in order to increase networking for scientific projects in allergy and asthma around Europe and to make GA2LEN the world leader in the field. Besides these activities, research has been jointly made and the first papers are being published. GA2LEN achievements in general can be grouped as those for a durable infrastructure built up during the project phase those which are project-related work based on these novel infrastructures, and the development and implementations of guidelines. The major achievements of GA2LEN are reported in this paper.
<doc id=Asthma/25241862> [Treatment of obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome for children refractory asthma].  The aim of this study was to understand the effect of different treatment of obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS) for refractory asthma in children.Fifty two children (32 in surgical group, 20 in conservative group) with refractory asthma and OSAHS were included in the study. All children received asthma condition assessment and polysomnography (PSG) examination before and after treatment, and were followed up for 6 months.All children got improved in PSG values 3 months after treatment, more significant improvement was achieved in surgical group than in conservative group (P < 0.05). While compared of OSAHS treatment, there were 2 cure, 6 notable effective, 9 effective, 3 in vain cases in conservative group, 8 cure, 16 notable effective, 8 effective, 0 in vain cases in surgery group. There was significant difference between the two groups (χ² = 8.91, P = 0.031). All children got improved in asthma condition evaluation parameters and decreased the use number of short acting β2 agonists after 6 months treatment. More significant improvement was achieved in surgical group than in conservative group. The differences of all the items had statistical significance (P < 0.05). There was statistical correlation between days mutation rate of peak expiratory flow (PEF) and apnea hypopnea index (r = 0.712, P < 0.01), and between days mutation rate of PEF and lowest oxygen saturation (r = 0.726, P < 0.01).Active treatment of OSAHS can improve asthma symptoms and reduce asthma medication effectively. The curative effect of surgical treatment is superior to conservative treatment.
<doc id=Asthma/21624745> High asthma prevalence and increased morbidity among rural children in a Medicaid cohort.  Urban children represent a group at high risk for asthma development and adverse asthma outcomes. Although rural children also encounter sociodemographic disparities that might be expected to worsen asthma, asthma in the rural United States is poorly studied.To determine rural-urban differences in childhood asthma diagnosis and morbidity.We studied a statewide population of 117,080 children continuously enrolled in Tennessee Medicaid from birth through the sixth year of life, using linked Tennessee Medicaid, vital records, and pharmacy claims databases to determine asthma diagnosis and residence.The cohort was 45% urban, 23% suburban, and 33% rural. Compared with urban children, rural children were more likely to be white, have a history of bronchiolitis, and have mothers who smoked. Eleven percent of urban, 12% of suburban, and 13% of rural children met study criteria for asthma diagnosis (adjusted odds ratio for rural children, 1.16; 95% confidence interval, 1.09-1.24; adjusted odds ratio for suburban children, 1.22; 95% confidence interval, 1.14-1.30; with urban as the referent; P < .001). Rural children had greater use of outpatient asthma care, whereas urban children had greater use of inhaled corticosteroids. Compared with urban children, rural children had fewer asthma emergency department visits but were hospitalized for asthma at similar rates and had similar use of asthma rescue medications.In this pediatric Medicaid population, rural children had increased asthma prevalence and similar asthma morbidity compared with urban children but differences in patterns of asthma care and resource use, suggesting that optimal interventions for asthma may differ in rural compared with urban populations.Copyright © 2011 American College of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
<doc id=Asthma/9723562> Diagnosis and treatment of gastroesophageal reflux in children and adolescents with severe asthma.  The ability of gastroesophageal reflux disease to provoke asthma is controversial. Recent reports have suggested that reflux to the proximal esophagus may be especially likely to aggravate asthma, but the prevalence of proximal reflux in children and adolescents is poorly documented. It is also unclear how sensitive and specific the commonly used tests of reflux, barium swallow, and scintiscan are compared with pH probe studies in young patients. There is limited information on the effectiveness of the combination of H2 blockers and prokinetic agents in controlling reflux in children.There were three objectives in this study: (1) to determine the prevalence of both proximal and distal gastroesophageal reflux in asthmatic children and adolescents; (2) to determine the sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values of barium swallow and scintiscan studies; and (3) to determine the effectiveness of standard antireflux pharmacotherapy.A 24-hour, 2-channel pH probe study was carried out in 79 asthmatic children aged 2 to 17 years. The prevalence of abnormal proximal and distal gastroesophageal reflux was calculated from the findings. In 63 of these patients, barium swallow and Technetium99 scintiscan were carried out and the findings used to calculate the sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value of these studies relative to pH probe. In 11 subjects a follow-up, 24-hour pH probe was carried out after at least 3 weeks of therapy with an H2 blocker and prokinetic agent to determine the efficacy of therapy.There was abnormal proximal esophageal reflux in 64.5% of subjects and abnormal distal reflux in 73.4%. The sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values of barium swallow were 46.1%, 83.3%, 82% and 51%, respectively. Those of scintiscan were 15%, 72.7%, 50% and 32%, respectively. Of 11 subjects studied by repeat pH probe, 10 had persistent abnormal reflux.Abnormal reflux into the proximal esophagus occurs in the majority of asthmatic children with difficult-to-control disease. The barium swallow and scintiscan compare poorly with pH probe in diagnosing reflux. Treatment of reflux with recommended does of H2 blockers and prokinetic agents has a high failure rate, and follow-up studies are essential.
<doc id=Asthma/23725350> Impact of Schizophyllum sensitization on decline of lung function in asthma.  There is increasing interest in the association between the severity of asthma and fungal sensitization, and lung function decline in relation to mold and dampness in the home has recently been reported. This study was performed to determine the correlation between sensitization to Schizophyllum commune and decline of lung function, and to elucidate the outcomes and risk factors, especially from Schizophyllum allergy.The medical records of 50 patients with asthma who satisfied the following inclusion criteria were collected and reviewed retrospectively: (1) at least 5 years of follow-up with five evaluations; (2) intradermal skin tests including S. commune performed at the initial assessment; and (3) severity ranging from mild-to-moderate. Lung function decline (evaluated as adjusted delta FEV1/year) was compared in a cross-sectional manner with regard to gender, age, BMI, smoking habit, allergological characteristics and exacerbation frequency.There were significant differences in lung function decline between females and males (p < 0.05), positive and negative results of late-phase skin reaction to S. commune (p < 0.001), and positive and negative late-phase skin reaction to Aspergillus (p < 0.05). Lung function decline was correlated with exacerbation frequency (r = 0.428, p = 0.002). On multiple regression analysis, the probability of lung function decline in asthma was found to be significantly associated with female gender and positive late-phase skin reaction against S. commune. Our results suggested that sensitization to S. commune may be one of the risk factors involved in lung function decline in asthmatic patients.
<doc id=Asthma/7377640> Compliance differences following administration of theophylline at six- and twelve-hour intervals.  This study evaluated the compliance differences between administration of theophylline at six- and 12-hour intervals in a pediatric outpatient population. Compliance was statistically better with the sustained release tablets than with the short acting tablets.
<doc id=Asthma/7125334> Slow-reacting substances, leukotrienes C4 and D4, increase the release of mucus from human airways in vitro.  Allergic pulmonary reactions in vivo lead to airway constriction and mucous secretion, whereas in vitro lung anaphylaxis lead to mediator release and increased mucous glycoprotein secretion from cultured human airways. Using quantitation of radiolabeled mucous glycoprotein from cultured airways as a model for mucous release, the effects of two leukotrienes, LTC4 and LTD4, were assessed. BOth biosynthetic and synthetic LTC4 and LTD4 produced dose-related increases in mucous production at concentrations of 1 to 1,000 units/ml (20 to 20,000 pg [LTD4] and 24 to 24,000 pg [LTC4]/ml). These enhancing actions were seen in 11 of 11 lung cultures, and were significantly prevented by the specific SRS-A antagonist FPL 55712. Therefore, LTC4 and LTD4, two major components of the allergic mediator SRS-A, are potent mucous secretagogues and may possibly contribute to the mucous secretion observed during allergic reactions in vitro and in vivo.
<doc id=Asthma/8511684> Seasonal and recurrent intensive care unit admissions for acute severe asthma in children.  Life-threatening attacks of asthma requiring intensive care unit (ICU) management at Red Cross War Memorial Children's Hospital in Cape Town were noted to occur in some patients in the same or adjacent months of different years. A retrospective case-controlled study was performed of 21 such 'seasonal' patients who presented to the ICU over a 14-year period. The group made up 6.5% of all asthma patients admitted to the ICU and their 65 admissions made up 15.6% of all ICU asthma admissions during this period. The control group consisted of patients with recurrent admissions that occurred in 'random' months. The two groups were compared in respect of demographic and clinical data. Patients requiring seasonal admissions were shown to form a distinct sub-population of children with severe asthma, some with a family history of fatal asthma, who were less likely to 'outgrow' asthma in childhood, were more likely to require maintenance steroid therapy for asthma management, and significantly more often had positive radioallergosorbent tests to Aspergillus and Cladosporium sp. and to grass pollen. A retrospective analysis of dates of severe asthma attacks may identify individual seasonality, which is a risk factor for life-threatening and intractable asthma.
<doc id=Asthma/20501982> Improvements in symptoms and quality of life following exercise training in older adults with moderate/severe persistent asthma.  Some individuals with moderate/severe persistent asthma develop irreversible airway obstruction. These individuals present with dyspnoea, exercise intolerance and impaired quality of life (QOL), all of which could potentially be alleviated with exercise training.To investigate whether exercise training improves functional exercise capacity and QOL in middle-aged and older adults with fixed airway obstruction asthma (FAOA).35 subjects aged 67.8 ± 10.6 years, with FEV(1) 59 ± 16% of predicted, were randomised to a 6-week 'intervention' period of supervised exercise training (n = 20) or usual care (n = 15). This period was preceded by a 3-week run-in period during which asthma control was assessed weekly. Functional exercise capacity (6-min walk distance, 6MWD) and QOL (Asthma QOL Questionnaire, AQLQ) were measured before, immediately following and 3 months after the intervention period.34 subjects (exercise group, n = 19, and control group, n = 15) completed the intervention period. Relative to the control group, the exercise group had greater improvements immediately following and 3 months after the intervention in the AQLQ symptom domain (0.61, p = 0.001, and 0.57 points per item, p = 0.005) and AQLQ activity limitation domain (0.43, p = 0.04, and 0.55 points per item, p = 0.04). 6MWD increased (36 ± 37 m, p < 0.01) in the exercise group immediately following training and remained elevated (34 ± 45 m, p < 0.01) at the 3-month follow-up. The magnitude of change in 6MWD between groups was not significant, despite no change in the control group.Supervised exercise training improves symptoms and QOL in adults with FAOA.Copyright © 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel.
<doc id=Asthma/23760974> Clinical consequences of targeting IL-17 and TH17 in autoimmune and allergic disorders.  The TH17 lineage of T cells and its canonical cytokine IL-17 have been the focus of many recent studies in autoimmune, allergic, and infectious disease. In this review, we will briefly discuss the current knowledge about the role of these cells and IL-17 in a spectrum of disorders. It is clear that IL-17 plays pathogenic roles in certain conditions while the same pathway is critically important to immunity in others. Targeting of TH17 cells or IL-17 therapeutically may impart many benefits, but this approach is not without potentially serious implications regarding host defense. These issues will be discussed herein as we evaluate pharmacological approaches targeting this pathway that are just beginning to be fully tested in human disease. 
<doc id=Asthma/6464014> The determination of blood histamine in asthmatic patients with a simple and sensitive method.  The histamine level of whole blood and plasma in asthmatic patients was estimated by means of a simple, sensitive and specific method, which was developed to measure low histamine levels. This method consists of the following procedures; the partial purification of histamine with a small P-cellulose column; its further purification with high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC); and fluorometric detection with precolumn o-phthaldehyde (OPT) reaction. The present assay could detect as little as 0.5 ng of histamine concentration. Blood histamine levels in patient with asthmatic attack, 57 +/- 34 ng/ml (mean +/- S.D. N = 14), were significantly different from those in symptom-free period, 37 +/- 15 ng/ml (N = 15) as well as those in normal subjects, 36 +/- 17 ng/ml (N = 12). However, there were no significant differences among plasma histamine levels in normal subjects, 1.6 +/- 1.7 ng/ml (N = 12) and, in asthmatic patients during attacks, 1.6 +/- 1.8 ng/ml (N = 14) and symptom-free periods, 1.6 +/- 1.7 ng/ml (N = 15). These results indicate that plasma histamine concentration does not increase during asthmatic attacks, even though there was significant increase of blood histamine concentration.
<doc id=Asthma/26068579> Asthma Bronchiale and Exercise-Induced Bronchoconstriction.  Exercising regularly has a wide range of beneficial health effects; in particular, it has been well documented to help in the management of chronic illnesses including asthma. However, in some individuals, exertion can also trigger an exacerbation of asthmatic episodes and subsequent acute attacks of breathlessness, coughing, tightness of the chest and wheezing. This physiological process is called exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB) whereby post-exercise forced expiratory volume in 1 s is reduced by 10-15% from baseline. While EIB is highly prevalent in asthmatics and presents with similar respiratory symptoms, asthma and EIB are not mutually exclusive. The aim of this review is to present a broad overview of both conditions in order to enhance the understanding of the similarities and differences distinguishing them as two separate entities. The pathophysiology and mechanisms underlying asthma are well described with research now focussing on defining phenotypes for targeted management strategies. Conversely, the mechanistic understanding of EIB remains largely under-described. Diagnostic pathways for both are established and similar, as are pharmacologic and non-pharmacologic treatments and management approaches, which have enhanced success with early detection. Given the potential for exacerbation of asthma, exercise avoidance is common but counterproductive as current evidence indicates that it is well tolerated and improves quality of life. Literature supporting the benefit of exercise for EIB sufferers is at present favourable, yet extremely limited; therefore, future research should be directed in this area as well as towards further developing the understanding of the pathophysiology and mechanisms underpinning both EIB and asthma.© 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.
<doc id=Asthma/6511203> The use of psychoanalytic theory and technique on the medical ward.  In recent years an increasing number of psychoanalysts and psychoanalytically oriented psychiatrists have entered the field of general hospital psychiatry. Not only do psychoanalytic principles help in understanding the patient and his reaction and interaction, their application in a consultation also has therapeutic benefits. These therapeutic aspects are often not appreciated. This paper demonstrates the value of applying psychoanalytic concepts in consulting on medical patients in the hospital setting and, concurrently, explores some obstacles to the application of these concepts.
<doc id=Asthma/8385428> Mast cells in the airway mucosa and rapid development of occupational asthma induced by toluene diisocyanate.  We examined lobar bronchial biopsies taken from 18 subjects with occupational asthma induced by toluene diisocyanate (TDI) and from nine nonasthmatic control subjects. Two groups of asthmatics were identified on the basis of the duration of exposure to TDI before the onset of symptoms of asthma. Group A (n = 8) developed asthma after 2.4 +/- 0.4 yr of exposure to TDI, and Group B (n = 10) developed asthma after 21.6 +/- 3.1 yr of exposure to TDI. Both groups of asthmatic subjects had increased numbers of inflammatory cells in the airway mucosa compared with subjects in the nonasthmatic control group. Comparison between Groups A and B showed that subjects who developed asthma after short-term exposure had a significantly increased number of mast cells both in epithelium and in lamina propria than did subjects who developed asthma after long-term exposure to TDI (p < 0.01). Interestingly, the numbers of mast cells both in the epithelium (rs = -0.52, p < 0.05) and in the lamina propria (rs = -0.81, p < 0.001) were inversely correlated with the length of exposure to TDI before the onset of asthma. In conclusion, subjects who develop asthma after short-term exposure to TDI have an increased number of mast cells in the airway mucosa, suggesting that these cells may be associated with individual susceptibility differences to offending agents.
<doc id=Asthma/18508844> Malakoplakia of the spleen: a case report.  Malakoplakia is an uncommon chronic inflammatory disorder, which is characterized by the presence of histiocytes containing concentric concretions known as Michaelis-Gutmann bodies in a background of mixed inflammation. The urinary tract is the most commonly involved site. However, malakoplakia can be found in a wide range of other organs throughout the body. Its occurrence has been attributed to a defect in the bactericidal capacity of phagocytic cells, and it is usually seen in patients with some degree of immunologic compromise. A case of malakoplakia of the spleen in a patient with Crohn's disease is reported in this article.
<doc id=Asthma/24420817> Asthma and cystic fibrosis: a tangled web.  Successfully diagnosing concomitant asthma in people with cystic fibrosis (CF) is a challenging proposition, and the utility of conventional diagnostic criteria of asthma in CF populations remains uncertain. Nonetheless, the accurate identification of individuals with CF and asthma allows appropriate tailoring of therapy, and should reduce the unnecessary use of asthma medication in broader CF cohorts. In this review, we discuss the diagnostic challenge posed by asthma in CF, both in terms of clinical evaluation, and of interpretation of pulmonary function testing and non-invasive markers of airway inflammation. We also examine how the role of cross-sectional thoracic imaging in CF and asthma can assist in the diagnosis of asthma in these patients. Finally, we critically appraise the evidence base behind the use of asthma medications in CF populations, with a particular focus on the use of inhaled corticosteroids and bronchodilators. As shall be discussed, the gaps in the current literature make further high-quality research in this field imperative.© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
<doc id=Asthma/24500941> PIKO-6® vs. forced spirometry in asthmatic children.  The PIKO-6® is an electronic device that measures forced expiratory volume at seconds 1 (FEV1) and 6 (FEV6) of a forced vital capacity (FVC) maneuver. This device could aid in diagnosing obstructive respiratory diseases.To determine the concordance of FEV1, FEV6, and the FEV1/FEV6 quotient achieved with PIKO-6® versus spirometric values from asthmatic patients, and compare results with measures from healthy children.A cross-sectional study with asthmatic and healthy 6-to-14-year-old children, all of whom performed a forced spirometry as well as a PIKO-6® test.The study included 82 subjects (58 asthmatics, 24 healthy children). Except for the functional parameters, the basal characteristics of the two groups were similar. The concordance correlation coefficient (CCC) for FEV1 was 0.938 (P < 0.001), with 95% limits of agreement of -0.591 to 0.512 L, and an average of differences of -0.040 L. For FEV6, CCC was 0.927 (P < 0.001), and the 95% limits of agreement were -0.751 to 0.598 L with an average of differences of -0.077 L. The concordance analysis and the FEV1 and FEV6 associations were better in children with controlled asthma and healthy subjects, as well as in the post-bronchodilator results.The concordance between PIKO-6® and spirometry was lower in patients with partially controlled or uncontrolled asthma compared to controlled or healthy children. The broad limits of agreement show that the FEV1, FEV6, and FEV1/FEV6 obtained with the PIKO-6® are not interchangeable with spirometry results. Longitudinal evaluations of asthma patients are necessary to assess the utility of PIKO-6®.© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
<doc id=Asthma/3384078> Respiratory heat/water loss alone does not determine the severity of exercise-induced asthma.  Respiratory heat loss (RHL) or water loss (RWL) have been proposed as possible triggering factors in exercise and hyperventilation-induced asthma (EIA and HIA). It has recently been demonstrated that exercise intensity and climatic factors are both important in determining the severity of EIA. Eight young asthmatics performed both exercise and isocapnic hyperventilation (IHV) manoeuvres under identical climatic conditions, as part of our investigation of these interactive factors which determine the severity of the asthmatic response. It was found that, when challenged at low ventilatory levels, exercise produced a significantly attenuated asthmatic response compared to IHV. The fall in forced expired volume in 1 sec (delta FEV1) following exercise was 15 +/- 4% as compared with 27 +/- 3% after IHV (p less than 0.002). It is concluded that while the hypernoea in exercise may serve as a trigger, exercise per se introduces an additional factor which serves to limit the full response seen with IHV. This attenuated response is revealed at low ventilatory levels but is masked at high levels.
<doc id=Asthma/14742294> The splicing and fate of ADAM33 transcripts in primary human airways fibroblasts.  The ADAM (A Disintegrin and Metalloprotease) family of Zn++-dependent metalloproteases are multidomain proteins involved in diverse cellular activities. Polymorphic variation in ADAM33 is strongly associated with asthma and bronchial hyperresponsiveness. Identification of those isoforms of ADAM33 that are expressed in airways is fundamental to dissecting the role of ADAM33 in asthma. Analysis of primary human airways fibroblasts has shown the presence of a number of alternatively spliced forms of ADAM33, including one encoding a putative secreted variant, and many transcripts lacking the metalloproteinase domain. The relative abundance of these transcripts has been quantified using reverse transcription real-time polymerase chain reaction, in both nuclear and cytoplasmic fractions of RNA. These results demonstrate that a number of splice variants of ADAM33 are transported into the cytoplasm. Ninety percent of ADAM33 mRNA is retained in the nucleus and the subtle differences in the composition of nuclear and cytoplasmic RNA suggest important events in the splicing and selection of ADAM33 transcripts. Western blot analysis confirmed that several protein isoforms of ADAM33 are expressed in primary airways fibroblasts. These findings demonstrate that ADAM33 exists in multiple isoforms, suggesting that it is a complex molecule that plays multiple roles within mesenchymal cells.
<doc id=Asthma/25171434> UGT1A1*28 is associated with greater decrease in serum K⁺ levels following oral intake of procaterol.  Procaterol is a potent β2-agonist frequently used for the management of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The efficacy and adverse effects of β2-agonists are heterogeneous in individual patients, which may be partly caused by genetic variations in metabolizing enzymes and receptor molecules. The present study was designed to analyze the relationship between gene polymorphisms and physiological effects of procaterol in healthy subjects.Ninety-two non-smoking healthy volunteers were given 1 µg/kg body weight (max 50 µg) of procaterol as a dry syrup preparation, and the serum concentrations of procaterol, serum K(+), and the physical responses were monitored for 240 min. We genotyped β2-adrenergic receptor (ADRB2) (Arg16Gly and Gln27Glu), cytochrome P450 3A4 (rs2246709, rs4646437), and uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase 1A1 (UGT1A1) (rs4148323 [allele A, *6], rs12479045, rs4148328, rs4663971, rs12052787, rs4148329, A (TA)6/7 TAA [seven-repeat allele, *28]). Procaterol concentrations in serum were measured by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.No gene polymorphisms affected serum procaterol concentrations. Meanwhile, overall serum K(+) level changes were significantly lower in carriers of UGT1A1*28 than in non-carriers after correcting for strong effects of serum procaterol concentrations and baseline K(+) levels. No other polymorphisms were associated with serum K(+) levels. None of polymorphisms of ADRB2 were associated with any physical responses.The present study indicates that significant hypokalemia may occur in carriers of UGT1A1*28 by systemic administration of procaterol and potentially by other β2-agonists metabolized in the liver.
<doc id=Asthma/16580828> Are mouse models of allergic asthma useful for testing novel therapeutics?  Experimental mouse allergic asthma is a reliable, clinically relevant facsimile of human disease. The focus here is to demonstrate that antigen-induced mouse allergic asthma is a useful model for testing novel therapeutics. Furthermore, it is especially crucial to treat mice during established disease, either during ongoing clinically manifest disease or to prevent disease relapses. In addition, our results indicate that lung Th2 resting memory cells are important targets for the treatment of allergic asthma.
<doc id=Asthma/6495217> [Determination of the correlations between oxidant and antioxidant systems in bronchial asthma].  The authors devised a method for calculating the correlations of alpha-tocopherol and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity to lipid peroxidation (LPO), presented in the form of the following coefficients: K1 = alpha-tocopherol/LPO, K2 = = SOD/LPO X 100. In patients with a bronchial asthma attack, there was an appreciable decrease in the K1 and K2 with a tendency toward recovery in the inactive disease phase. The coefficients ascended to relatively high values if the patients responded well to the treatment. As the disease duration increased (up to 5 years), there was a progressive lowering of the coefficients, with the LPO values being the highest and with those of alpha-tocopherol and SOD being low. The estimates under study were discovered to depend on the external respiration as shown by spirography and pneumotachometry. It has been demonstrated that the coefficients suggested by the authors characterize not only the level of the LPO-AOA system compensation but also of the pathological process on the whole. The data obtained point to the importance of determining the coefficients for the assessment of the patient's status gravity, the degree of the improvement following treatment, the disease gravity, and prognosis.
<doc id=Asthma/17925064> Part II: Inhaler technique and adherence to therapy.  Although the importance of effective asthma management has been well established, in many patients asthma control remains suboptimal. While numerous factors likely contribute to inadequate control of asthma symptoms, studies have demonstrated that many patients fail to use their inhaler devices correctly, which may compromise asthma treatment. To ensure that patients use their inhaler devices appropriately, the choice of inhaler should be matched to each individual patient's capabilities and preferences. Thorough patient education regarding the effective use of the selected inhaler, repeated demonstrations on proper inhalation technique, and frequent patient follow-up is necessary to ensure that inhalers are operated correctly. Patient adherence to therapy, which traditionally has been poor, is another factor that may negatively affect asthma control. Patient attitudes and perceptions regarding the effectiveness of therapy, the risks of inadequate asthma control, and the need for daily controller medications all influence compliance. Consequently, effective education regarding the benefits of treatment and the risks of nonadherence is critical to enhancing patient adherence, self-care skills, and, potentially, asthma control.
<doc id=Asthma/12197791> Lead poisoning and asthma: an examination of comorbidity.  To determine the comorbidity of lead poisoning and asthma in urban children, and to examine associated clinical factors.One-hundred-one patients at an inner-city clinic with blood lead levels (BLLs) of 25 microg/dL or higher (> or =1.2 micromol/L) (BLL25 group) were randomly selected from a tracking lead database and matched on age, sex, and primary language to 101 randomly selected patients with a first BLL recorded in the database of lower than 5 microg/dL (<0.2 micromol/L) (BLL5 group) and no subsequent BLLs of 10 microg/dL or higher (> or =0.5 micromol/L). Medical records were reviewed to determine diagnosis or symptoms of asthma or wheezing at any visit, immunization status, and number of visits. Analyses for matched pairs were conducted.The BLL25 and BLL5 groups did not differ on age at diagnostic BLL (26.6 months vs 24.2 months), sex (54% male), or language (12% Spanish). The BLL25 and BLL5 groups had a similar number of subjects with a diagnosis of asthma (6% vs 11%; odds ratio, 0.5; 95% confidence interval, 0.2-1.6); 26% of BLL25 and 34% of BLL5 subjects had either a diagnosis or symptoms of asthma or wheezing (odds ratio, 0.7; 95% confidence interval, 0.4-1.3). Subjects with BLL25 were more likely to have delayed immunization and a first clinic visit when older than subjects with BLL5.There was no increased likelihood of asthma diagnosis or symptoms among young children with lead poisoning. Children with lead poisoning also had delayed medical care. These data may help guide interventions aimed at preventing or reducing the impact of lead poisoning and asthma.
<doc id=Asthma/27556405> Association of a PAI-1 Gene Polymorphism and Early Life Infections with Asthma Risk, Exacerbations, and Reduced Lung Function.  Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) is induced in airways by virus and may mediate asthmatic airway remodeling. We sought to evaluate if genetic variants and early life lower respiratory infections jointly affect asthma risk.We included Latino children, adolescents, and young adults aged 8-21 years (1736 subjects with physician-diagnosed asthma and 1747 healthy controls) from five U.S. centers and Puerto Rico after excluding subjects with incomplete clinical or genetic data. We evaluated the independent and joint effects of a PAI-1 gain of function polymorphism and bronchiolitis / Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) or other lower respiratory infections (LRI) within the first 2 years of life on asthma risk, asthma exacerbations and lung function.RSV infection (OR 9.9, 95%CI 4.9-20.2) and other LRI (OR 9.1, 95%CI 7.2-11.5) were independently associated with asthma, but PAI-1 genotype was not. There were joint effects on asthma risk for both genotype-RSV (OR 17.7, 95% CI 6.3-50.2) and genotype-LRI (OR 11.7, 95% CI 8.8-16.4). A joint effect of genotype-RSV resulted in a 3.1-fold increased risk for recurrent asthma hospitalizations. In genotype-respiratory infection joint effect analysis, FEV1% predicted and FEV1/FVC % predicted were further reduced in the genotype-LRI group (β -2.1, 95% CI -4.0 to -0.2; β -2.0, 95% CI -3.1 to -0.8 respectively). Similarly, lower FEV1% predicted was noted in genotype-RSV group (β -3.1, 95% CI -6.1 to -0.2) with a trend for lower FEV1/FVC % predicted.A genetic variant of PAI-1 together with early life LRI such as RSV bronchiolitis is associated with an increased risk of asthma, morbidity, and reduced lung function in this Latino population.
<doc id=Asthma/10587740> [Evaluation of the ability of asthmatic children to use a breath-actuated pressurized inhaler].  Poor inhaler technique in asthmatics is well documented. The objective of this study was to evaluate the influence of reading the instruction leaflet and the consultant's explanations on the use of the new breath-actuated inhaler (Autohaler 3M).In this study were participating 379 asthmatic children and adolescents, aged from four to 17 years (mean age: 10; 64% boys), recruited by 80 pediatricians. The use of the Autohaler device was considered to be correct if the shaking, lip position, deep inhalation and apnea were all properly performed.The Autohaler was used correctly by 42% of the subjects simply after reading the instruction leaflet (phase I), and by 75% of the subjects who, having failed phase I, received the consultant's explanations (phase II). At the end of phases I and II, the device was correctly used by 84% of the subjects. In multivariate analysis, those under the age of nine years and those with no prior use of inhaler systems accounted for a significant amount of the incorrect use of the Autohaler during phase I. In phase II, only the fact of being less than nine years old was significantly related to incorrect use.More than four-fifths of the asthmatic children and adolescents properly used the Autohaler after merely reading the instructions and after receiving additional explanation from the consultant. The marked improvement obtained after medical explanations underlines the essential educative role of the physician when prescribing. Young children require specific training and particularly careful attention.
<doc id=Asthma/18250232> Effect of cost-sharing on use of asthma medication in children.  To examine the effect of cost-sharing on the use of asthma medications in asthmatic children. According to asthma guidelines, children with asthma may require treatment with multiple medications, including controllers and relievers, to achieve optimal control. Although families may be enrolled in drug benefit plans, impediments to access persist in the form of cost-sharing.Population-based retrospective cohort study of children by analysis of administrative medication insurance claims data.Ontario, Canada.A cohort of 17 046 Ontario children with asthma enrolled in private drug plans. Main Exposure We used data on out-of-pocket expenses and reimbursement for medications to classify children as having zero, low (< 20%), or high (> or = 20%) levels of cost-sharing.We examined use of bronchodilators, inhaled corticosteroids, leukotriene receptor antagonists, oral corticosteroids, and combination agents. Multiple linear and logistic regressions compared medication use between cost-sharing groups, controlling for age and sex.The annual number of asthma medication claims per child was significantly lower in the high cost-sharing group (6.6) compared with the zero (7.0) and low (7.2) cost-sharing groups (P < .001). Children in the high cost-sharing group were less likely to purchase bronchodilators, inhaled corticosteroids, and leukotriene receptor antagonists compared with the low cost-sharing group (odds ratio, 0.76; 95% confidence interval, 0.67-0.86) and were less likely to purchase dual agents compared with the low cost-sharing group (odds ratio, 0.70; 95% confidence interval, 0.66-0.75).The cost-sharing level affected the use of asthma medication, with the highest cost-sharing group exhibiting significantly lower use of maintenance medications and newer dual agents.
<doc id=Asthma/21121080> Safety of ultra-rush titration of sublingual immunotherapy in asthmatic children with tree-pollen allergy.  The recommendation to use sublingual-swallow immunotherapy (SLIT) in children and adults with allergic rhinitis has been established over the past decade. Recently, ultra-rush titration of SLIT has become more and more common, raising concerns about its safety in children with asthma. Fifty-four children with asthma and adolescents aged 6–14 with documented allergic disease because of tree pollen (birch and possibly alder and/or hazel) from 14 study centers in Germany participated in a randomized, double-blind, and placebo-controlled study. Twenty-seven were randomized to receive SLIT with standardized birch pollen allergen extract and the other 27 to receive placebo. An ultra-rush high-dose SLIT titration regimen reaching the maintenance dose of 300 index of reactivity (IR) within 90 min (30–90–150–300 IR) was used. The difference in mean PFR changes during ultra-rush titration between SLIT and placebo was not significant (p = 0.056). A 95% probability that SLIT does not decrease PFR during ultra-rush titration was demonstrated. Neither anaphylactic shock nor else serious systemic reactions to the study drug occurred. No serious adverse event assessed by the investigator as related to study drug treatment was reported.
<doc id=RxInteractions/22990330> Pharmacokinetic interactions of almorexant with midazolam and simvastatin, two CYP3A4 model substrates, in healthy male subjects.  Pre-clinical experiments have shown that almorexant, a dual orexin receptor antagonist, is able to inhibit cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4). Therefore, a study was conducted to investigate the effects of multiple-dose almorexant on the pharmacokinetics of midazolam and simvastatin, two CYP3A4 model substrates.Fourteen healthy male subjects were enrolled in an open-label, randomized, two-way crossover study. Treatment period A consisted of a single oral dose of 2 mg midazolam on day 1 and 40 mg simvastatin on day 3. In treatment period B, subjects received 200 mg almorexant once daily for 9 days together with a single oral dose of midazolam on day 7 and simvastatin on day 9.Concomitant administration of midazolam with almorexant at steady-state levels, achieved within 4-5 days, resulted in an increase of 1.2-fold [90 % confidence interval (CI) 1.0-1.4], 1.4-fold (90 % CI 1.2-1.6), and 1.3-fold (90 % CI 1.2-1.4) in the maximum plasma concentration (C(max)), area under the concentration-time curve from time 0 to infinity (AUC(0-∞)), and terminal half-life (t(1/2)), respectively, of midazolam; the time to peak plasma concentration (t(max)) was unchanged. Whereas C(max) and t(max) were not influenced by almorexant, the AUC(0-∞) of hydroxy-midazolam increased by 1.2-fold (90 % CI 1.1-1.4) and the t(1/2) by 1.3-fold (90 % CI 1.0-1.5). Concomitant administration of simvastatin with almorexant at steady-state resulted in an increase of 2.7-fold (90 % CI 2.0-3.7) and 3.4-fold (90 % CI 2.6-4.4) in C(max) and AUC(0-∞), respectively, for simvastatin; the t(1/2) and t(max) were unchanged. The C(max) and AUC(0-∞) of hydroxyacid simvastatin both increased by 2.8-fold, with 90 % CIs of 2.3-3.5 and 2.2-3.5, respectively; the t(max) increased by 2 h and the t(1/2) was unchanged. The urinary 6-β-hydroxycortisol/cortisol ratio was unaffected by almorexant.Our results suggest that the observed interaction was caused by the inhibition of CYP3A4 activity, most probably at the gut level.
<doc id=RxInteractions/2964881> [Effect of adrenaline on the mitosis-inhibiting action of a chalone-containing preparation in Ehrlich ascites tumor].  The effect of adrenaline and Ehrlich ascite carcinoma (EAC) chalone on cell division was studied. It has been established that EAC chalone inhibited cell proliferation. The action of adrenaline was also accompanied by a decrease in mitotic index, but the inhibitory effect of the hormone was weaker than that of chalone, it occurred later and its duration was less. A combined effect of adrenaline and chalone depended on the time interval between the administration of the substances. It has been found that chalone administration 1 h after adrenaline administration prolonged mitotic inhibitory effect by 4 h and its synchronous action on cell division in EAC was weak during the experiment. Combined effect of adrenaline and chalone did not differ from the effect of chalone alone if chalone was administered 3 h after adrenaline administration.
<doc id=RxInteractions/11304662> Cyclooxygenase-2--specific inhibitors and cardiorenal function: a randomized, controlled trial of celecoxib and rofecoxib in older hypertensive osteoarthritis patients.  Arthritis and hypertension are common comorbid conditions affecting elderly adults. Use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in patients treated with antihypertensive medication can lead to destabilization of blood pressure control and other cardiorenal events. The potential for similar interactions with cyclooxygenase-2-specific inhibitors has not been fully explored. The authors evaluated the cardiorenal safety of two new cyclooxygenase-2-specific inhibitors, celecoxib and rofecoxib.This study was a 6-week, randomized, parallel-group, double-blind trial in patients with osteoarthritis who were > or =65 years of age and were taking antihypertensive agents. Patients received once-daily celecoxib 200 mg or rofecoxib 25 mg. The primary endpoints were the development of edema, changes in systolic blood pressure, and changes in diastolic blood pressure as measured at any time point in the study. Measurements occurred at baseline and after 1, 2, and 6 weeks of treatment.Eight hundred ten patients received study medication (celecoxib, n = 411; rofecoxib, n = 399). Nearly twice as many rofecoxib- compared with celecoxib-treated patients experienced edema (9.5% vs. 4.9%, P = 0.014). Systolic blood pressure increased significantly in 17% of rofecoxib- compared with 11% of celecoxib-treated patients (P = 0.032) at any study time point. Diastolic blood pressure increased in 2.3% of rofecoxib- compared with 1.5% of celecoxib-treated patients (P = 0.44). At week 6, the change from baseline in mean systolic blood pressure was +2.6 mmHg for rofecoxib compared with -0.5 mmHg for celecoxib (P = 0.007).Patients taking antihypertensive therapy and receiving cyclooxygenase-2-specific inhibitors should be monitored for the development of cardiorenal events. Patients receiving celecoxib experienced less edema and less destabilization of blood pressure control compared with those receiving rofecoxib.
<doc id=RxInteractions/10328233> Epinephrine enhances penetration and anti-cancer activity of local cisplatin on rat sub-cutaneous and peritoneal tumors.  Despite the theoretical advantages of a high local concentration of anti-cancer drugs, local chemotherapy often fails to produce complete and lasting responses in experimental and human solid tumors. Experiments using Patent Blue dye showed that fluids diffused poorly into tumor mass when injected inside or around s.c. rat tumors in rats. In the same way, Patent Blue dye distributed poorly from the peritoneal cavity into the tumor nodules of rats with peritoneal carcinomatosis. The potent vasoconstrictor, epinephrine (1 mg/kg of body weight) was shown to facilitate the penetration of Patent Blue dye into s.c. and peritoneal rat tumors. Platinum concentration evaluated by micro-PIXE in s.c. DHD/K12/ PROb colon tumors or by atomic absorption spectrometry in DHD/K12/PROb peritoneal tumors was 4- to 12-fold higher when epinephrine was added to local cisplatin. Peri-tumoral or intra-tumoral injection of cisplatin (2 mg/kg) alone does not cure s.c. DHD/K12/PROb colon tumors or GV1A1 glioma tumors in BD IX rats. By contrast, a complete and lasting cure of s.c. tumors was achieved regularly and without skin necrosis when epinephrine was added to intra-tumoral or peri-tumoral cisplatin. Rats with peritoneal-tumor nodules 1 to 2 mm in diameter, and insensitive to i.p. cisplatin alone, were cured when the anti-cancer drug was combined with epinephrine. These experimental results could justify clinical trials using a combination of cisplatin and epinephrine in the treatment of locally growing solid tumors.
<doc id=RxInteractions/6120601> [Neurochemical mechanisms of the effect of ACTH on aggressive-defensive behavior in rats].  It was found that ACTH increased fear and aggressive-defensive behavior in pairs of male rats in response to electrical stimulation. The parameters were the threshold values of squeak reactions, risings and fights, the frequency of fights and the duration of standing in a posture of threat. The ACTH influence was similar to the M-cholinomimetic effect. It increased against the background of M-cholinoreceptors' excitation but did not change in essential under the action of H-cholinoreceptors. An assumption has been made of the extraadrenal action of ACTH on affective aggression. The mechanism of the effect involves facilitation of excitation of the central M-cholinoreceptors.
<doc id=RxInteractions/20199131> A case of torsades de pointes induced by severe QT prolongation after an overdose of eperisone and triazolam in a patient receiving nifedipine.  Eperisone hydrochloride is a centrally acting muscle relaxant, and triazolam is a short-acting benzodiazepine. Although commonly prescribed, cardiotoxicity induced by a single overdose of either drug is comparatively rare. A patient receiving nifedipine developed torsades de pointes (TdP) because of prolongation of the corrected QT (QTc) interval after an overdose of eperisone hydrochloride and triazolam.A 60-year-old man receiving nifedipine was admitted in a comatose condition 3 h after ingesting 5,000 mg of eperisone and 2.5 mg of triazolam. Electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm with prolongation of the QTc interval (820 ms). The serum electrolyte levels were as follows: potassium, 3.8 mEq/L; magnesium, 2.4 mg/dL. The serum drug concentrations were high: eperisone, 15,360 ng/mL; triazolam, 110.8 ng/mL. A temporary cardiac pacemaker was implanted immediately after the development of TdP, 11 h after the ingestion. The serum triazolam concentration normalized on day 2. The QTc interval and eperisone concentration normalized on day 6.Eperisone and triazolam overdose can cause life-threatening cardiotoxicity. Electrocardiographic monitoring and serial determination of QTc interval are likely the best way to observe these patients and evaluate the risk of cardiotoxicity.
<doc id=RxInteractions/3079781> Comparative study of encainide and quinidine in the treatment of ventricular arrhythmias.  The antiarrhythmic efficacy and safety of oral encainide hydrochloride and quinidine sulfate were compared in a nine center double-blind crossover study in 187 outpatients with benign or potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmias. Patients with at least 30 premature ventricular complexes/h were randomized to receive either encainide, 25 mg four times/day, or quinidine, 200 mg four times/day, for 2 weeks. These doses were continued for another 2 weeks if a 75% or greater reduction in premature ventricular complexes was observed. If this reduction was not seen, encainide was increased to 50 mg four times/day or quinidine to 400 mg four times/day for an additional 2 weeks. Both drugs produced a statistically significant reduction in premature ventricular complex frequency compared with baseline values. Encainide produced a statistically significant greater mean reduction in total premature ventricular complexes than did quinidine during the initial dose phase and after dose adjustment. More patients required dose increases of quinidine (60%) than of encainide (51%). Early discontinuation of treatment resulting in advancement to the next study period occurred in 12 patients taking encainide and 38 patients taking quinidine (p less than 0.05). PR and QRS intervals increased significantly during encainide treatment, as did QTc and JT intervals during quinidine treatment. No adverse reactions resulted from these electrocardiographic changes. Adverse reactions were more common with quinidine than with encainide.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
<doc id=RxInteractions/11347330> Influence of carbamazepine-10,11-epoxide on the serum level of valproic acid in epileptic patients on combined treatment with carbamazepine and valproic acid.  Possible drug interactions in comedication have been the focus of intensive studies in the last decade. Polytherapy is often resorted to in epilepsy, and then the effect of factors such as gender, age, and metabolism should be taken into consideration. In this country, the anticonvulsant drugs used very frequently in a combined treatment of epilepsy are carbamazepine (CBZ) and valproic acid (VPA). The effect of CBZ is determined by the presence of its active metabolite carbamazepine-10.11-epoxide (CBZ-E) in blood serum.The purpose of the study was to find whether CBZ-E has any effect on the VPA serum level and whether this effect is age-dependent.Blood samples from 52 epileptic patients on comedication with CBZ and VPA aged 3 to 53 years were examined. The patients were allocated into four age groups: preschool age (from 3 to 6 years)--9 patients; school age (from 7 to 14 years)--8 patients; adolescence (from 15 to 18 years)--11 patients, and adults (from 19 to 53 years)--24 patients. The serum levels of CBZ, CBZ-E, VPA were determined by gas chromatography. The ratio CBZ-E/CBZ of every patient was calculated.The CBZ and VPA levels we found were within the limits of their respective therapeutic ranges. The mean values of the serum level of the two drugs showed no statistically significant difference in the four age groups. In the school age group the mean values of CBZ and VPA were the lowest compared to the other age groups.The effect of CBZ-E serum level upon VPA serum level is age-dependent. In preschool age VPA manifests itself as inhibitor of CBZ-E metabolism. The ratio CBZ-E/CBZ does not affect the VPA serum level in combined therapy with these two drugs.
<doc id=RxInteractions/2506076> Enhancement of arachidonic acid liberation by protein kinase C activator is partially dependent on extracellular Na+ in rabbit platelets.  In [3H]arachidonic acid-labeled rabbit platelets, pretreatment with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (20 nM) or dioctanoylglycerol (20 microM) enhanced [3H]arachidonic acid liberation induced by low concentration of A23187 (150 nM). When extracellular Na+ was replaced with N-methyl-D-glucamine, the enhancement is reduced by about 50%. Similar synergistic enhancement of the liberation was obtained by using monensin (2-10 microM) or NH4Cl (5-20 mM) in place of protein kinase C activator in combination with A23187. The guanosine 5'-O-[3-thiotriphosphate] (100 microM)-induced liberation was also enhanced by a rise of extracellular pH (pH 7.0-7.8) in saponin-permeabilized platelets. These results suggest that the enhancement of arachidonic acid liberation by protein kinase C may partially be mediated by intracellular alkalinization in rabbit platelets.
<doc id=RxInteractions/1164157> Central action of 2-amino- and 2-amino-5-aryltetrahydropyrimidinediones-4,6.  The influence on the central nervous system of five 2-amino- and 2 amino-5-aryltetrahydropyrimidinedione-4,6 derivatives was studied. The most favorable action was exerted by benzylamine-tetrahydropyrimidinedione, which inhibited spontaneous and amphetamine-induced motility most strongly, acted synergistically with hexobarbital, was the only one of the studied group of compound which delayed convulsions induced with pentamethylenetetrazole and amphetamine, and potentiated most strongly the central action of DOPA in mice with inhibited MAO activity. The weakest effects were produced by methylpiperazinephenyl-tetrahydropyrimidinedione.
<doc id=RxInteractions/16527267> Differential effects of nitroblue tetrazolium on the hemodynamic responses elicited by activation of alpha1-adrenoceptors and 5-HT2 receptors in conscious rats.  This study determined the effects of the lipophobic electron acceptor, nitroblue tetrazolium (5 micromol/kg, i.v.) on the vasoconstrictor responses elicited by the 5-hydroxytryptamine2 (5-HT2) receptor agonist, alpha-methyl-5-HT (5-50 microg/kg, i.v.) and the alpha1-adrenoceptor agonist, phenylephrine (2.5-20 microg/kg, i.v.) in conscious Sprague-Dawley rats. The systemic injection of nitroblue tetrazolium elicited pronounced hemodynamic responses that subsided by 10-15 min. Prior to the administration of nitroblue tetrazolium, the injections of alpha-methyl-5-HT and phenylephrine elicited dose-dependent increases in mean arterial blood pressure and mesenteric, renal and hindquarter vascular resistances. After administration of nitroblue tetrazolium, the vasoconstrictor responses elicited by alpha-methyl-5-HT were augmented whereas those elicited by phenylephrine were diminished. These results are consistent with the possibility that nitroblue tetrazolium interacts with the extracellular ligand-binding domains of 5-HT2 receptors and alpha1-adrenoceptor and that this interaction has opposite effects on activities of these G protein coupled receptors.
<doc id=RxInteractions/3919160> Ganglioside GM1 does not initiate, but enhances neurite regeneration of nerve growth factor-dependent sensory neurones.  An enzyme-linked immunoadsorbent assay (ELISA) for neurofilament protein was utilised to quantify the effect of exogenous ganglioside on neurite regeneration in cultures of dorsal root ganglion neurones. In contrast to nerve growth factor (NGF), ganglioside GM1 (100 micrograms/ml) failed to support neuronal survival and neurite regeneration as quantified by the ELISA assay and confirmed by morphological criteria. However, the simultaneous presence of GM1 (100 micrograms/ml) and NGF (0.5-5 ng/ml) throughout a 5-day period of culture resulted in an enhancement of previously reported NGF-induced increases in the expression of neurofilament protein. Further, the addition of GM1 (0-200 micrograms/ml) at 48 h in vitro to cultures initially established in the presence of 5 ng/ml NGF substantially increased the subsequent expression of neurofilament protein, this response being both independent of and not potentiated by NGF. The results in the present system suggest that GM1 cannot initiate a programme of neurite regeneration; however, GM1 can enhance this process with the response being secondary to the effect of NGF.
<doc id=RxInteractions/19269069> Antimalarial pharmacodynamics of chalcone derivatives in combination with artemisinin against Plasmodium falciparum in vitro.  Use of artemisinin based combination therapies (ACTs) is increasing in treatment of malaria. Their extensive and indiscriminate deployment will ultimately lead to selection of resistance. Thus, alternate ACTs are needed. We reported in vitro antimalarial potential of chalcone derivatives. A few potent chalcones were selected for their antimalarial interaction in combination with artemisinin in vitro. Combinations evaluated show synergistic or additive interactions. Chalcones act on broad range of asexual stages of the parasite. The synergistic combinations decrease hemozoin formation in parasitized erythrocytes. These combinations do not affect new permeation pathways induced in the host cells. This is the first report showing antiplasmodial interactions between artemisinin and synthetic chalcone azole derivatives. Thus, chalcones and artemisinin combinations open the possibility of novel ACTs.
<doc id=RxInteractions/2430560> [Proliferation of cultured endothelial cells under the effect of aprotinin and 4-aminomethylbenzoic acid].  Though the migration of cultivated endothelial cells is decreased by aprotinin, their proliferation is not influenced. The inhibition of migration caused by PAMBA is lower than that caused by aprotinin. PAMBA, however, inhibits the proliferation of endothelial cells. Simultaneous application of both agents is not more effective than PAMBA alone. The probability of the intracellular action of PAMBA is discussed.
<doc id=RxInteractions/20238427> Characterization and classification of adverse drug interactions.  Drug interactions which may cause harmful events are important for our health and new drag development. In the previous work, we extracted the drug interaction data from Japanese drug package inserts and generated the drug interaction network. The network contains a large number of drugs densely connected to each other, where drug targets and drug-metabolizing enzymes were shared in the drug interactions. In this study, we further analyzed the obtained drug interaction network by merging drugs into drug categories based on the Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical (ATC) classification. The merged data of drug interactions indicated drug properties that are related to drug interaction mechanisms or symptoms. We investigated the relationships between the drug groups and drug interaction mechanisms or symptoms.
<doc id=RxInteractions/22185045> Bilastine and the central nervous system.  Antihistamines have been classifed as first or second generation drugs, according to their pharmacokinetic properties, chemical structure and adverse effects. The adverse effects of antihistamines upon the central nervous system (CNS) depend upon their capacity to cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and bind to the central H1 receptors (RH1). This in turn depends on the lipophilicity of the drug molecule, its molecular weight (MW), and affinity for P-glycoprotein (P-gp) (CNS xenobiotic substances extractor protein). First generation antihistamines show scant affinity for P-gp, unlike the second generation molecules which are regarded as P-gp substrates. Histamine in the brain is implicated in many functions (waking-sleep cycle, attention, memory and learning, and the regulation of appetite), with numerous and complex interactions with different types of receptors in different brain areas. Bilastine is a new H1 antihistamine that proves to be effective in treating allergic rhinoconjunctivitis (seasonal and perennial) and urticaria. The imaging studies made, as well as the objective psychomotor tests and subjective assessment of drowsiness, indicate the absence of bilastine action upon the CNS. This fact, and the lack of interaction with benzodiazepines and alcohol, define bilastine as a clinically promising drug with a good safety profile as regards adverse effects upon the CNS.
<doc id=RxInteractions/3956136> In vitro evaluation of clindamycin in combination with oxacillin, rifampin, or vancomycin against Staphylococcus aureus.  In a study of antibiotic combinations of clindamycin with rifampin, oxacillin, or vancomycin using the time kill-curve method, the combination of clindamycin and rifampin were sometimes synergistic (5 of 15 times), otherwise indifferent and always enhanced killing of fifteen tested Staphylococcus aureus isolates. In contrast, vancomycin and clindamycin or oxacillin and clindamycin were either indifferent or antagonistic (approximately 50%). Vancomycin alone, however, was generally as effective as the combinations of clindamycin and rifampin.
<doc id=RxInteractions/1108017> Does somatostatin inhibition of insulin secretion involve two mechanisms of action?  Somatostatin, the hypothalamic growth hormone release inhibitory factor (GHRIF), directly inhibits both the first and second phases of insulin secretion. The sensitivities of these two phases of insulin secretion to somatostatin differ remarkably. The first phase of secretion is approximately 25 to 50 times more sensitive to somatostatin inhibition than is the second phase. In addition, somatostatin inhibition of insulin secretion during the second phase is reversed by supplemental calcium, whereas the somatostatin effect on the first phase is unaffected by additional calcium. These findings suggest that the cellular events which produce the two phases of insulin secretion are separate processes, and that somatostatin has a dual mechanism of action in inhibiting insulin secretion.
<doc id=RxInteractions/27539140> Suppression of reactive oxygen species-mediated ERK and JNK activation sensitizes dihydromyricetin-induced mitochondrial apoptosis in human non-small cell lung cancer.  Nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most common type of lung cancer with a high mortality rate and still remains a therapeutic challenge. A strategy for targeting NSCLC is to identify agents that are effective against NSCLC cells while sparing normal cells. Dihydromyricetin (DHM) is the major flavonoid component derived from Ampelopsis grossedentata, which has a long history of use in medicine. Herein, the molecular mechanisms by which DHM exerts its anticancer effects against NSCLC cells were investigated. Results from MTS, colony formation, Western blot, flow cytometric, and JC-1 mitochondrial membrane potential assays revealed that DHM showed a selective cytotoxic effect against NSCLC cells (A549 and H1975), but not against normal lung (WI-38) fibroblasts, by inducing apoptosis. DHM-induced cell apoptosis occurred through Bcl-w suppression-mediated mitochondrial membrane depolarization, caspase-9/-7/-3 activation, and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) cleavage in A549 and H1975 cells. Moreover, treatment of A549 and H1975 cells with DHM induced increase of intracellular peroxide and sustained activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2 and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK)1/2, and the reactive oxygen species scavenger, N-acetylcysteine (NAC), reversed DHM-induced ERK and JNK activation. Furthermore, treatment of cells with specific inhibitors of ERK and JNK or NAC significantly promoted the DHM-induced activation of caspase-9/-7/-3 and PARP cleavage and also sensitized the antitumorigenic effect of DHM on NSCLC cells. These findings define and support a novel function of DHM of inducing mitochondrion-derived apoptosis in human NSCLC cells, and a combination of DHM with ERK and JNK inhibitors should be a good strategy for preventing NSCLC proliferation. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Environ Toxicol 32: 1426-1438, 2017.© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
<doc id=RxInteractions/15958604> Direct excitation of hypocretin/orexin cells by extracellular ATP at P2X receptors.  Hypocretin/orexin (hcrt) neurons play an important role in hypothalamic arousal and energy homeostasis. ATP may be released by neurons or glia or by pathological conditions. Here we studied the effect of extracellular ATP on hypocretin cells using whole cell patch-clamp recording in hypothalamic slices of transgenic mice expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) exclusively in hcrt-producing cells. Local application of ATP induced a dose-dependent increase in spike frequency. In the presence of TTX, ATP (100 microM) depolarized the cells by 7.8 +/- 1.2 mV. In voltage clamp under blockade of synaptic activity with the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline, and ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists DL-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP-5) and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX), ATP (100 microM) evoked an 18 pA inward current. The inward current was blocked by extracellular choline substitution for Na+, had a reversal potential of -27 mV, and was not affected by nominally Ca2+-free external buffer, suggesting that ATP activated a nonselective cation current. All excitatory effects of ATP showed rapid attenuation. ATP-induced excitatory actions were mimicked by nonhydrolyzable ATP-gamma-S but not by alpha,beta-MeATP and inhibited by the purinoceptor antagonists suramin and pyridoxal phosphate-6-azo(benzene-2,4-disulfonic acid) tetrasodium salt (PPADS). The current was potentiated by a decrease in bath pH, suggesting P2X2 subunit involvement. Frequency and amplitude of spontaneous and miniature synaptic events were not altered by ATP. Suramin, but not PPADS, caused a small suppression of evoked excitatory synaptic potentials. Together, these results show a depolarizing response to extracellular ATP that would lead to an increased activity of the hypocretin arousal system.
<doc id=RxInteractions/25834030> Targeted screen for human UDP-glucuronosyltransferases inhibitors and the evaluation of potential drug-drug interactions with zafirlukast.  Inhibition of drug metabolizing enzymes is a major mechanism in drug-drug interactions (DDIs). A number of cases of DDIs via inhibition of UDP-glucuronosyltranseferases (UGTs) have been reported, although the changes in pharmacokinetics are relatively small in comparison with drugs that are metabolized by cytochrome P450s. Most of the past studies have investigated hepatic UGTs, although recent studies have revealed a significant contribution of UGTs in the small intestine to drug clearance. To evaluate potential DDIs caused by inhibition of intestinal UGTs, we assessed inhibitory effects of 578 compounds, including drugs, xenobiotics, and endobiotics, on human UGT1A8 and UGT1A10, which are major contributors to intestinal glucuronidation. We identified 29 inhibitors by monitoring raloxifene glucuronidation with recombinant UGTs. All of the inhibitors potently inhibited UGT1A1 activity, as well. We found that zafirlukast is a potent general inhibitor of UGT1As and a moderate inhibitor of UGT2Bs because it monitors 4-methylumbelliferone glucuronidation by recombinant UGTs. However, zafirlukast did not potently inhibit diclofenac glucuronidation, suggesting that the inhibitory effects might be substrate specific. Inhibitory effects of zafirlukast on some UGT substrates were further investigated in human liver and human small intestine microsomes in order to evaluate potential DDIs. The R values (the ratios of intrinsic clearance with and without an inhibitor) revealed that zafirlukast has potential to cause clinical DDIs in the small intestine. Although we could not identify specific UGT1A8 and UGT1A10 inhibitors, zafirlukast was identified as a general inhibitor for UGTs in vitro. The present study suggests that the inhibition of UGT in the small intestine would be an underlying mechanism for DDIs. Copyright © 2015 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics.
<doc id=RxInteractions/15598141> Intra-BLA or intra-NAc infusions of the dopamine D3 receptor partial agonist, BP 897, block intra-NAc amphetamine conditioned activity.  Recent studies have shown that both systemic and intra-nucleus accumbens (NAc) or intra-amygdala administration of dopamine D3 receptor ligands modulate reward-related learning. A previous study (H. Aujla, H. Sokoloff, & R. J. Beninger. 2002) showed that systemic administration of the partial dopamine D3 receptor agonist BP 897 selectively blocked the expression, but not the acquisition, of amphetamine-conditioned activity. This suggested the hypothesis that intra-NAc or intra-basolateral amygdala (BLA) BP 897 would attenuate the expression, but not the acquisition, of amphetamine-conditioned activity. Rats were habituated to activity-monitoring chambers for 5 days, for 1 hr each day. Conditioning occurred on the next 3 days, followed by a single 1-hr test session. Intra-NAc or intra-BLA infusions of BP 897 during test, but not during conditioning, attenuated intra-NAc amphetamine conditioned activity. Results indicate that the ability of BP 897 to attenuate the expression of conditioned activity is mediated in part by the NAc and BLA.
<doc id=RxInteractions/15919106> LPA-induced epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) in vitro invasion and migration are mediated by VEGF receptor-2 (VEGF-R2).  Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) stimulates ovarian tumor growth partially via induction of VEGF expression through transcriptional activation. Previous studies have shown that LPA induces epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) in vitro metastasis. In this study, we examined the role of VEGF in LPA-induced EOC invasion and migration and underlying mechanisms.The invasiveness of DOV13 cells was determined by in vitro basement membrane Matrigel invasion assay. Ovarian carcinoma cellular migration was quantified by the colloidal gold migration assay. Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 secretion and activation were detected by gelatin zymography. Urokinase type plasminogen activator (uPA) activity was determined by a coupled colorimetric assay measuring the activity of generated plasmin. Student's t test and one-way ANOVA were used for statistical analysis.Using a VEGF neutralizing monoclonal antibody (mAb), we show that LPA-induced EOC invasion is dependent upon VEGF. Using the selective VEGF receptor (VEGFR)-2 inhibitor, SU1498, LPA-induced EOC invasion and migration were significantly inhibited in a concentration-dependent manner. In addition, SU1498 inhibits MMP-2 secretion and uPA activity in ovarian cancer DOV13 cells. At 5 and 20 microM, SU1498 almost completely inhibited the activity of MMP-2 and uPA. SU1498 also decreases the LPA-induced increase of uPA activity in DOV13 cells.Our results show that LPA-induced EOC invasion is at least partially mediated by VEGF. Further, the VEGFR-2-mediated signaling transduction pathway may be involved in LPA-induced EOC invasion and migration by regulating the secretion and activation of MMP-2 and uPA.
<doc id=RxInteractions/12956722> In vivo modulation of 5-hydroxytryptamine release in mouse prefrontal cortex by local 5-HT(2A) receptors: effect of antipsychotic drugs.  In the rat, postsynaptic 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptors medial prefrontal cortex control the activity of the serotonergic system through changes in the activity of pyramidal neurons projecting to the dorsal raphe nucleus. Here we extend these observations to mouse brain. The prefrontal cortex expresses abundant 5- hydroxytryptamine2A receptors, as assessed by immunohistochemistry, Western blots and in situ hybridization procedures. The application of the 5-hydroxytryptamine2A/2C agonist DOI (100 microm) by reverse dialysis in the medial prefrontal cortex doubled the local release of 5-hydroxytryptamine. This effect was reversed by coperfusion of tetrodotoxin, and by the selective 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptor antagonist M100907, but not by the 5-hydroxytryptamine2C antagonist SB-242084. The effect of DOI was also reversed by prazosin (alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonist), BAY x 3702 (5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptor agonist), NBQX (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-4-propionate/kainic acid antagonist) and 1S,3S-ACPD (mGluR II/III agonist), but not by dizocilpine (N-methyl-d-aspartate antagonist). alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-4-propionate mimicked the 5-hydroxytryptamine elevation produced by DOI, an effect also reversed by BAY x 3702. Likewise, the coperfusion of classical (chlorpromazine, haloperidol) and atypical antipsychotic drugs (clozapine, olanzapine) fully reversed the 5-hydroxytryptamine elevation induced by DOI. These observations suggest that DOI increases 5-hydroxytryptamine release in the mouse medial prefrontal cortex through the activation of local 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptors by an impulse-dependent mechanism that involves/requires the activation of local alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-4-propionate receptors. This effect is reversed by ligands of receptors present in the medial prefrontal cortex, possibly in pyramidal neurons, which are involved in the action of antipsychotic drugs. In particular, the reversal by classical antipsychotics may involve blockade of alpha1-adrenoceptors, whereas that of atypical antipsychotics may involve 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptors and alpha1-adrenoceptors.
<doc id=RxInteractions/16039868> Rapamycin: an anti-cancer immunosuppressant?  Rapamycin and its derivatives are promising therapeutic agents with both immunosuppressant and anti-tumor properties. These rapamycin actions are mediated through the specific inhibition of the mTOR protein kinase. mTOR serves as part of an evolutionarily conserved signaling pathway that controls the cell cycle in response to changing nutrient levels. The mTOR signaling network contains a number of tumor suppressor genes including PTEN, LKB1, TSC1, and TSC2, and a number of proto-oncogenes including PI3K, Akt, and eIF4E, and mTOR signaling is constitutively activated in many tumor types. These observations point to mTOR as an ideal target for anti-cancer agents and suggest that rapamycin is such an agent. In fact, early preclinical and clinical studies indicate that rapamycin derivatives have efficacy as anti-tumor agents both alone, and when combined with other modes of therapy. Rapamycin appears to inhibit tumor growth by halting tumor cell proliferation, inducing tumor cell apoptosis, and suppressing tumor angiogenesis. Rapamycin immunosuppressant actions result from the inhibition of T and B cell proliferation through the same mechanisms that rapamycin blocks cancer cell proliferation. Therefore, one might think that rapamycin-induced immunosuppression would be detrimental to the use of rapamycin as an anti-cancer agent. To the contrary, rapamycin decreases the frequency of tumor formation that occurs in organ transplant experiments when combined with the widely used immunosuppressant cyclosporine compared with the tumor incidence observed when cyclosporine is used alone. The available evidence indicates that with respect to tumor growth, rapamycin anti-cancer activities are dominant over rapamycin immunosuppressant effects.
<doc id=RxInteractions/17597270> Examining the joint toxicity of chlorpyrifos and atrazine in the aquatic species: Lepomis macrochirus, Pimephales promelas and Chironomus tentans.  The joint toxicity of chlorpyrifos and atrazine was compared to that of chlorpyrifos alone to discern any greater than additive response using both acute toxicity testing and whole-body residue analysis. In addition, acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibition and biotransformation were investigated to evaluate the toxic mode of action of chlorpyrifos in the presence of atrazine. The joint toxicity of atrazine and chlorpyrifos exhibited no significant difference in Lepomis macrochirus compared to chlorpyrifos alone; while studies performed with Pimephales promelas and Chironomus tentans, did show significant differences. AChE activity and biotransformation showed no significant differences between the joint toxicity of atrazine and chlorpyrifos and that of chlorpyrifos alone. From the data collected, the combination of atrazine and chlorpyrifos pose little additional risk than that of chlorpyrifos alone to the tested fish species.
<doc id=RxInteractions/17851637> A multicenter phase II trial of 3-aminopyridine-2-carboxaldehyde thiosemicarbazone (3-AP, Triapine) and gemcitabine in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer with pharmacokinetic evaluation using peripheral blood mononuclear cells.  We tested the hypothesis that 3-aminopyridine-2-carboxaldehyde thiosemicarbazone (3-AP, Triapine) may enhance response to re-treatment with gemcitabine by enhancing intracellular uptake of gemcitabine in a phase II study.Patients who had prior exposure to gemcitabine as a first-line treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) were given weekly infusions of 3-AP and gemcitabine for 3 weeks followed by 1 week of rest, repeated every 28 days. Plasma and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were collected to evaluate the effect of 3-AP on pharmacokinetics and intracellular uptake of gemcitabine.Twelve patients were treated with a median of two treatment cycles without objective response, hence the study was terminated at interim analysis. Four patients had stable disease and the median time to progression was 3 months (95% confidence interval, CI: 1.7 to 9.1 months). Grade 3 toxicities included neutropenia (two patients), hypoxia (three patients) and dyspnea (one patient). Four patients developed reversible symptomatic methemoglobinemia during 3-AP infusion, with mild to moderately elevated methemoglobin levels that ranged from 7.8 to 17.6% of the total hemoglobin concentration. Limited pharmacokinetic data did not suggest any clinically relevant pharmacological influence of 3-AP on gemcitabine.3-AP did not enhance clinical response to gemcitabine in this cohort of patients with prior exposure to gemcitabine for advanced NSCLC. Further development of 3-AP in lung cancer is challenged by its potential of causing methemoglobinemia and hypoxia, which could be problematic in patients with compromised pulmonary reserves.
<doc id=RxInteractions/10197419> Efficient biliary excretion of susalimod, probably via the bromosulphthalein carrier, studied in a chronic bile fistula model in dogs.  Susalimod is a structural analogue of sulphasalazine, known to be extensively excreted in the bile in various animal species and for inducing bile duct hyperplasia after long-term treatment of the dog with doses exceeding 25 mg kg(-1). In this study local concentrations of susalimod in the bile duct were determined after oral administration in dogs. A chronic bile fistula experimental model was designed to affect the bile duct as little as possible. The dogs received repeated oral doses of 25-150 mg kg(-1) day(-1) for 5 days; these doses had been used in previous toxicology studies. Extremely high biliary concentrations of unchanged susalimod (20,000-43,000 microM) were measured. Biliary excretion approached saturation at the higher doses, resulting in super-proportional increases in peripheral plasma concentrations as the dose was increased. The maximal bile/plasma concentration ratio was 4300. The high biliary clearance was indicative of almost complete first-pass elimination at doses below saturation of the elimination process. Interaction studies with the biliary excretion marker bromosulphthalein (BSP) demonstrated that susalimod and BSP probably share the same carrier transport system in biliary excretion. The elimination of BSP from plasma was prolonged 20 times and the biliary excretion rate was markedly reduced when susalimod was co-administered with BSP. These results show that susalimod is highly enriched in the bile, in a saturable manner, after oral administration. The compound interacts with the biliary excretion of BSP, suggesting that it shares the same carrier-mediated transport system.
<doc id=RxInteractions/2021933> Role of glutathione in the in vitro synergism between 4-hydroperoxy-cyclophosphamide and cisplatin in leukemia cell lines.  To explain the sequence-dependent in vitro cytotoxic synergism between 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide (4-HC) and cisplatin in the K-562 human leukemia cell line, we have hypothesized that 4-HC decreases cellular glutathione (GSH) levels and that the resulting diminution of the cellular protective effect of GSH leads to the increased cytotoxicity of cisplatin. Exposure of K-562 cells to 4-HC resulted in a concentration- and time-dependent depletion of cellular GSH. To determine the effect of modulation of GSH levels on the toxicity of cisplatin, K-562 cells were exposed to buthionine sulfoximine (BSO) and/or GSH ethyl esters. Depletion of GSH to approximately 10% of control values by BSO potentiated the cytotoxicity of cisplatin, while rapid replenishment of GSH to within normal levels by GSH esters abolished the potentiation of BSO. Doubling cellular GSH by incubation with GSH esters protected against cisplatin cytotoxicity. Of importance, pretreatment of K-562 cells with BSO, in addition to increasing the cytotoxicity of 4-HC and cisplatin, abolished the synergism between the two drugs. The working hypothesis was also tested in two other cell lines in which the cytotoxic synergism between 4-HC and cisplatin was exhibited: the Raji cell line, a human lymphoblastic cell line, and the L1210-CPA cell line, a subclone of the murine L1210 leukemia with resistance to 4-HC. GSH levels in these two cell lines were not altered by incubation with concentrations of 4-HC at which the synergism was observed. In conclusion, the data for the K-562 cell line, indicating that (a) 4-HC depletes cellular GSH levels, (b) the lowering of cellular GSH levels enhances the toxicity of cisplatin, and (c) intact GSH stores are required for the synergism, strongly support the postulate that the cytotoxic synergism between 4-HC and cisplatin is modulated by GSH levels in this cell line. However, the lack of 4-HC-mediated depletion of GSH at concentrations of 4-HC resulting in cytotoxic synergism in the Raji and L1210-CPA cell line indicates that mechanisms other than modulation of GSH levels by 4-HC are responsible for the synergism in these cells.
<doc id=RxInteractions/2579844> Isopropanol and chlordecone potentiation of carbon tetrachloride liver injury: retention of potentiating action in hepatocyte suspensions prepared from rats given isopropanol or chlordecone.  Administration of isopropanol (2.5 ml/kg, po) or chlordecone (15.2 mg/kg, po) potentiated the release of glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (GOT) into serum 17- or 7-fold, respectively, in rats exposed subsequently to 30 microliter CCl4/kg, po. Hepatocytes isolated from isopropanol-treated rats, incubated with low concentrations of CCl4 (0.3 or 0.9 mM), did not have significant increase in the amount of GOT released after 30 min compared to control cells exposed to CCl4. However, at 3 hr cells from isopropanol-treated rats released 10- or 3-fold more GOT when exposed to 0.3 or 0.9 mM CCl4, respectively, than control cells exposed to CCl4. By hour 5 of incubation this differential of GOT release was not observed. The same dose and time-dependent pattern of potentiated GOT release upon exposure of CCl4 was seen in hepatocytes obtained from chlordecone-treated rats. These results indicate that the potentiation by isopropanol or chlordecone of CCl4-induced release of GOT from liver is retained through the procedures of cell isolation.
<doc id=RxInteractions/632223> Netilmicin synergy with carbenicillin or cefamandole against Serratia.  Twenty clinical isolates of Serratia sp. were tested against netilmicin, gentamicin, carbenicillin and cefamandole alone (broth and agar dilution) and in combination (agar dilution). Broth and agar dilution minimal inhibitory concentrations agreed to within a two-fold dilution in 96% of the tests. Overall, 95% of the isolates were susceptible to netilmicin regardless of susceptibility to gentamicin or carbenicillin. Netilmicin-carbenicillin synergy was seen in 55% of the strains and netilmicin-cefamandole in 70%. These results indicate that combinations of netilmicin with carbenicillin or cefamandole may be clinically useful.
<doc id=RxInteractions/7619610> MR imaging of double-contrast enhanced porcine myocardial infarction. Correlation with microdialysis.  MR imaging was performed to investigate whether Gd-DTPA-BMA-induced contrast enhancement of myocardial infarction is counteracted by Dy-DTPA-BMA. Myocardial infarction was induced in 5 pigs. Microdialysate probes were inserted in ischemic and nonischemic myocardium. Gd-DTPA-BMA (0.3 mmol/kg b.w.) and Dy-DTPA-BMA (1.0 mmol/kg b.w.) were administered i.v. 4 hours post occlusion. The microdialysate was collected every 10 min and measured for Gd and Dy using inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometry. The pigs were sacrificed 2 hours after administration of contrast media. The concentration of both contrast agents was 3 times higher in infarcted myocardium than in nonischemic myocardium. The infarctions displayed high signal intensity in spin-echo sequences ex vivo. This lack of detectable susceptibility effects from Dy may be caused by loss of cell membrane integrity in infarcted tissue as shown by our microdialysate and biopsy data.
<doc id=RxInteractions/15793145> In vitro effects of spectinomycin and ceftriaxone alone or in combination with other antibiotics against Chlamydia trachomatis.  The in vitro effects of spectinomycin and ceftriaxone, alone or in combination with erythromycin, ofloxacin, and doxycycline, against Chlamydia trachomatis were investigated by the checkerboard method and compared by Ridit (reference identical unit) analysis. A combination of spectinomycin with erythromycin or doxycycline was found to be more effective than that of ceftriaxone.
<doc id=RxInteractions/6605112> Antibacterial activity of cefoperazone alone and in combination against cephalosporinase-producing Enterobacter cloacae.  The activity of cefoperazone against a strain with an inducible cephalosporinase and a mutant that produces the enzyme constitutively indicates that the low inducer activity of this antibiotic plays an important role in its activity against Enterobacter cloacae.
<doc id=RxInteractions/11752210> Soluble guanylyl cyclase activator YC-1 protects white matter axons from nitric oxide toxicity and metabolic stress, probably through Na(+) channel inhibition.  In the rat isolated optic nerve, nitric oxide (NO) activates soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC), resulting in a selective accumulation of cGMP in the axons. The axons are also selectively vulnerable to NO toxicity. The experiments initially aimed to determine any causative link between these two effects. It was shown, using a NONOate donor, that NO-induced axonal damage occurred independently of cGMP. Unexpectedly, however, the compound YC-1, which is an allosteric activator of sGC, potently inhibited NO-induced axonopathy (IC(50) = 3 microM). This effect was not attributable to increased cGMP accumulation. YC-1 (30 microM) also protected the axons against damage by simulated ischemia, which (like NO toxicity) is sensitive to Na(+) channel inhibition. Although chemically unrelated to any known Na(+) channel inhibitor, YC-1 was effective in two biochemical assays for activity on Na(+) channels in synaptosomes. Electrophysiological recording from hippocampal neurons showed that YC-1 inhibited Na(+) currents in a voltage-dependent manner. At a concentration giving maximal protection of optic nerve axons from NO toxicity (30 microM), YC-1 did not affect normal axon conduction. It is concluded that the powerful axonoprotective action of YC-1 is unrelated to its activity on sGC but is explained by a novel action on voltage-dependent Na(+) channels. The unusual ability of YC-1 to protect axons so effectively without interfering with their normal function suggests that the molecule could serve as a prototype for the development of more selective Na(+) channel inhibitors with potential utility in neurological and neurodegenerative disorders.
<doc id=RxInteractions/18239804> Role of P2X and P2Y receptors in rat myocardial contractility during ontogeny.  Stable agonist of P2 receptors 2-methylthio-ATP and selective antagonists of P2X and P2Y receptors PPADS and reactive blue-2 were used for evaluation of the role of P2 receptors in positive contractile reaction of atrial and ventricular myocardium in rats. PPADS significantly moderated the effects of 2-methylthio-ATP in 14-, 21-, and 56-day-old rat pups, but potentiated them in 100-day-old rats. Under conditions of reactive blue-2 treatment, the positive effect of the agonist was preserved in the atria and ventricles in all age groups and was age-dependent.
<doc id=RxInteractions/9727817> A case series of hospitalized patients with elevated digoxin levels.  Although there is renewed enthusiasm for the use of digoxin in patients with heart failure, current dosing guidelines are based on a nomogram published in 1974. We studied the incidence of and risk factors for elevated digoxin levels in patients admitted to a community hospital, and compared their dosage regimens to published guidelines.We reviewed the charts of all patients who had serum digoxin levels greater than 2.4 ng/mL during a 6-month period. We collected demographic and clinical data, indications for digoxin use, digoxin dosage, concurrent medications, laboratory data, and clinical and electrocardiographic features of digoxin toxicity.Of the 1,433 patients with digoxin assays, 115 (8%) patients had elevated levels. Of the 82 patients with complete records and correctly timed digoxin levels, 59 (72%) had electrocardiographic or clinical features of digoxin toxicity. Patients with serum digoxin levels >2.4 ng/mL were slightly older (78 +/- 8 versus 73 +/- 9 years of age; P = 0.12) and had greater serum creatinine levels (3.1 +/- 7.3 versus 1.4 +/- 0.3 mg/dL; P = 0.01) than those with levels < or =2.4 ng/mL. Forty-seven patients had elevated digoxin levels on admission, including 21 patients admitted for digoxin toxicity. Impaired or worsening renal function contributed to high levels in 37 patients, and a drug interaction was a contributory factor in 10 cases. Twenty (43%) of these patients were taking the recommended maintenance dose based on the scheme employed in the Digitalis Investigation Group study. Thirty-five patients developed high digoxin levels while in hospital. In 26 patients, this followed a loading dose of digoxin for the control of rapid atrial fibrillation. Impaired renal function was implicated in all of these patients. Despite the elevated digoxin level, rate control was achieved in only 11 patients of these patients.Elevated digoxin levels and clinical toxicity remains a common adverse drug reaction. Elderly patients, particularly those with impaired renal function and low body weights, are at the greatest risk. As published digoxin nomograms often result in toxicity, clinical variables need to be monitored. In patients with congestive heart failure and normal sinus rhythm the potential benefit of digoxin is small; thus, patients should receive a dose that minimizes the risk of toxicity. For patients with new onset atrial fibrillation, other agents may be preferable for rate control.
<doc id=RxInteractions/6807081> Valproic acid in the treatment of intractable absence seizures in children: a single-blind clinical and quantitative EEG study.  A 12-week single-blind study used valproic acid in the treatment of refractory, simple and complex absence (petit mal) seizures in 17 children. The clinical seizure control was compared with the number and duration of electrical discharges on six-hour EEG recordings before and during therapy. Sixteen patients showed clinical improvement. Fourteen had greater than 75% clinical improvement and ten patients became free of absence seizures. Side effects were mild, but two patients experienced transient, asymptomatic thrombocytopenia. Good correlation between clinical response and decreasing seizure activity on the EEG occurred in the seizure-free patients.
<doc id=RxInteractions/21843554> The unique antiviral activity of artesunate is broadly effective against human cytomegaloviruses including therapy-resistant mutants.  Current therapy options to treat infections with human cytomegalovirus face severe limitations leading to a continued search for novel drug candidates. Here, we describe novel characteristics of the strong antiviral potency of the drug artesunate. In vitro virus replication systems were applied to analyze a number of laboratory and clinically relevant strains of human cytomegalovirus. An inhibitory block at a very early stage of infection was demonstrated. Time-of-addition experiments indicated that the antiviral efficacy could be optimized when artesunate was applied as fractional doses consecutively added post-infection. Artesunate showed a clearly higher anti-cytomegaloviral activity than its parental drug artemisinin (approximately 10-fold) or other artesunate-related compounds. Mean IC(50) values of artesunate for a variety of standard therapy-resistant virus mutants were within a 2-fold range compared to wild-type virus. Furthermore, a synergistic effect was identified when artesunate was combined with the mechanistically distinct antiviral compound maribavir. These findings point to unique antiviral properties of artesunate which may offer an advantage over standard antiviral therapy particularly in cases of drug resistance.Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier B.V.
<doc id=RxInteractions/2431776> Antagonism of 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine antileukemic activity by concomitant treatment with cytarabine.  In this study we show that cytarabine given simultaneously with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (Aza-dC) antagonized Aza-dC activity against L1210 mouse leukemia. This antagonism was seen after a single dose (on Day 3 or Day 5 after tumor implant) and after repeated doses. This observation suggests caution in combining cytarabine with Aza-dC in the treatment of human leukemias.
<doc id=RxInteractions/20422369> Enhanced effect of losartan and rosuvastatin on neointima hyperplasia.  The beneficial effects of losartan and rosuvastatin on neointimal formation have been well characterized, but little is known about the combined treatment benefit of these two drugs. This study was designed to investigate the synergistic effect of losartan combined with rosuvastatin on the magnitude of protective action in vascular injury mediated by cuff-induced neointimal formation model in vivo. Losartan at 20 mg/kg or rosuvastatin at 40 mg/kg significantly decreased both the neointimal formation and BrdU-positive cells in neointima, indicating the inhibition of cell proliferation including a progress of DNA synthesis. The combination treatment used lower doses of losartan with rosuvastatin (10 + 20 & 5 + 10 mg/kg, respectively) that proved to be significant in decreasing the neointimal formation and BrdU incorporation. These results were comparable to the diminution attained with monotherapy of either drug in higher doses. Interaction index measured by isobolar method indicated drug synergism in these two combinations of both drugs at lower doses. Therefore, the administration of losartan and rosuvastatin in combination with low doses synergistically decreased in cuff-induced neointimal formation by reducing cell proliferation, suggesting that this drug synergism may be fully effective with, lower adverse effects, for the treatment of vascular remodeling such as restenosis.
<doc id=RxInteractions/19035966> Significant psychological morbidity occurs in irritable bowel syndrome: a case-control study using a pharmacy reimbursement database.  Psychological problems are associated with IBS but the strength of this association is unclear.To assess co-prescribing of antispasmodic and CNS-acting drugs through a nested case-control study.A national dispensing database identified patients who were first dispensed antispasmodic medicines for a continuous 3-month period or more during 2006, using 2005 as a run-in period. Each patient was matched with four control patients and excluded if they received drugs indicated for IBD.Four hundred and seven patients commenced antispasmodic drugs during 2006. These patients were matched with 1628 controls. In 2005, patients subsequently prescribed antispasmodics were 2-3 times more likely to receive CNS-acting drugs than controls. In the year following commencement of IBS therapy, patients were 2-4 times more likely than controls to be prescribed CNS-acting drugs including antidepressants (35.4% vs. 9.3%), anxiolytics (27.8% vs. 8.8%), antipsychotics (9.8% vs. 3.3%) and hypno-sedatives (32.7% vs. 11.3%; P < 0.0001). The adjusted OR (95% CI) for antidepressant, anxiolytic, hypnosedative and antipsychotic prescribing in IBS patients were 3.81 (2.79-5.20), 2.84 (2.12-3.81), 2.62 (1.91-3.60) and 2.58 (1.80-3.66), respectively.Patients prescribed ongoing therapy for presumed IBS are 2-4 times more likely to be prescribed CNS-acting drugs than controls, providing evidence of psychological comorbidity in IBS.
<doc id=RxInteractions/18751705> Dual targeting of EGFR and HER-2 in colon cancer cell lines.  A number of studies have revealed that coexpression of EGFR and HER-2 has been found in a subset of colon cancers and may cooperatively promote tumor cell growth and survival. In the present work, two tyrosine kinase inhibitors, gefitinib and lapatinib, together with trastuzumab, raised a monoclonal antibody against HER-2 were evaluated in two colon cancer cell lines, DLD-1 and Caco-2. The aim of the study was to investigate their effect on tumor cell proliferation and apoptosis.Cell proliferation was assessed using the MTT assay and apoptosis was evaluated by DNA fragmentation and the Annexin V binding assay. EGFR and HER-2 protein and mRNA levels were evaluated by immunoblotting and quantitative RT-PCR, respectively.Treatment of cells with each agent alone resulted in inhibition of cell proliferation after 48 h in a dose-dependent manner except for trastuzumab, which did not alter cell proliferation of DLD-1. Apoptosis increased in DLD-1 cells, after 24 h treatment with gefitinib. None of the tested agents altered apoptosis in Caco-2 cells. HER-2 and EGFR protein levels did not follow the changes of mRNA levels after treatment with the tested agents.Tauhe inhibitory effect of these agents on cell proliferation and the induction of apoptosis differ for the two colon cancer cell lines under consideration. Further studies are necessary to investigate the way they exert their antitumor effect.
<doc id=RxInteractions/3797806> Lack of pharmacodynamic interaction between pentoxifylline and warfarin in the rat.  Pentoxifylline is a new hemorrheologic agent which decreases platelet aggregation and reduces fibrinogen levels. Its ability to affect the coagulation cascade was studied in rats with and without the coadministration of warfarin. There was no significant difference between the prothrombin time ratio (PTR) of the warfarin group (1.51 +/- 0.38) and the combination drug group (1.47 +/- 0.30) at 6 hours. Likewise, there was no significant difference between the PTR of the control group (1.09 +/- 0.07) and the group administered pentoxifylline alone (1.05 +/- 0.06). Although the mechanisms of action of the two drugs may overlap, the pharmacodynamic activity of warfarin was not significantly altered when pentoxifylline was coadministered.
<doc id=RxInteractions/108464> Galvanized caging as a potential factor in the development of the fading infant or white monkey syndrome.  Four rhesus females and their infants were kept in galvanized enclosures, and three were kept in stainless steel caging. All four offspring in the galvanized enclosures developed achromotrichia, alopecia, and weakness that varied from modererate to severe while the three infants in stainless steel cages were clinically normal. Plasma copper, zinc, and iron values as well as liver copper and zinc values of the infants were compared for the two types of caging. Plasma copper values were significantly lower (p less than 0.001) in the animals housed in galvanized cages. Plasma zinc and liver zinc levels were significantly elevated in these same animals (p less than 0.01 and p less than 0.05, respectively). Significant differences were not detected in liver copper values in the two groups of infants. Copper and zinc levels in the dams' plasma and milk were not statistically different between the two groups.
<doc id=RxInteractions/2598407> Synergy between 5,10-dideaza-5,6,7,8-tetrahydrofolic acid and methotrexate in mice bearing L1210 tumors.  In vivo studies with 5,10-dideaza-5,6,7,8-tetrahydrofolic acid (DDATHF), an inhibitor of glycinamide ribonucleotide transformylase, indicate that at doses ranging from 2.5 to 10 mg/kg, it prolongs the survival of mice implanted with L1210 tumors. Lower doses of this agent have no effect. Parallel studies with methotrexate indicate that DDATHF is not as potent or as efficacious as methotrexate in this animal model. Low doses of DDATHF combined with low doses of methotrexate can cause a significant increase in the survival of L1210 tumor-bearing mice, suggesting synergism between these two antifolates.
<doc id=RxInteractions/1974313> [Significance of flumazenil in acute benzodiazepine poisoning].  Thirty-five patients over 14 years of age were evaluated, with the common feature of benzodiazepine poisoning, either as a single drug or associated with others and/or with ethanol, and who had a Glasgow score lower than 10 at admission. These patients were treated with flumazenil as a competitive antagonist drug. The results were very satisfactory. Subsequently, the possible relationship between the effect of flumazenil and the pharmacokinetic benzodiazepine profile was evaluated, and a significant relationship between the half life and the degree of resedation of the patients was found.
<doc id=RxInteractions/11996327> Effect of food on the pharmacokinetics of fiduxosin in healthy male subjects.  The effect of food on the pharmacokinetics of fiduxosin, a novel selective alpha1a-receptor antagonist, was determined in healthy male subjects. This was a Phase I, open-label, single-center, randomized, two-period, crossover, single oral dose study of fiduxosin. Healthy male subjects (N= 14) were administered single oral doses of 30 mg of fiduxosin under fasting or nonfasting (1026 Kcal, 54 g fat, 46% calories from fat) conditions in each period. Fiduxosin plasma concentration profiles were used to assess fiduxosin pharmacokinetics. The mean Cmax, Tmax, AUC(infinity), CL/F and Vbeta/F values under fasting and nonfasting conditions were 34.3 and 150 ng/mL, 5.4 and 5.4 h, 822 and 1940 ng x h/mL, 42.5 and 17.2 L/h, and 924 and 235 L, respectively. The harmonic mean t 1/2 under fasting and nonfasting conditions were 13.9 and 9.28 h, respectively. Food significantly increased the bioavailability of fiduxosin. Under the nonfasting regimen, the Cmax central value was more than 4-fold and the AUC(infinity) central value more than 2-fold the central value of the fasting regimen. Tmax was not significantly different between fasting and nonfasting regimens. Food also decreased fiduxosin oral clearance (CL/F) by 60% and volume of distribution (Vbeta/F) by 75%.
<doc id=RxInteractions/21115368> Pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions between calcineurin inhibitors and proliferation signal inhibitors with anti-microbial agents: implications for therapeutic drug monitoring.  Infections account for 15% to 20% of deaths in transplant recipients; thus, rapid and appropriate therapeutic intervention is required. However, many anti-microbial agents can interact significantly with a transplant recipient's immunosuppressive regimen, placing them at risk for a potential adverse drug reaction and prolonged hospitalization. This investigation highlights the pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions between the calcineurin inhibitors and proliferation signal inhibitors with commonly used anti-microbial agents, specifically addressing mechanism, management, onset of action, magnitude of effect and strength of evidence for each interaction.Copyright © 2011 International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
<doc id=RxInteractions/9691451> Enzymic degradation of sorghum glucuronoarabinoxylans leading to tentative structures.  Three glucuronoarabinoxylan (GAX) populations, obtained from water-unextractable cell wall material from sorghum by different alkali extractants, were digested by combinations of endo-xylanases (Xyl I, Xyl III and GXH), arabinofuranosidases (AXH and AraB) and an alpha-glucuronidase (GlcAase). All three GAX populations were shown to be rather poorly degradable, due to the very high degree of substitution, as well as the substitution pattern. The barium hydroxide-extracted GAX showed a maximum degree of degradation of almost 12%, using Xyl I combined with GXH and AXH. The GAX population extracted by 4 M KOH was hardly degraded by any of the tested combinations. In all cases, Xyl III showed lowest activity upon the three extracts. Synergistic effects were observed between Xyl I and AXH. Both neutral and acidic arabinoxylan oligomers were formed. The GlcAase acted only upon oligomeric material released by Xyl I. No synergistic effects were observed between the GXH and AXH. Combining the patterns of degradation with the modes of action of the enzymes, structures were proposed for the different populations of sorghum GAX. Evidence was obtained that the xylan backbone of especially the GAX extracted by 4 M KOH, is substituted by arabinose and glucuronic acid according to a strict pattern, which hinders the enzymes to act.
<doc id=HeartFailure/6214858> Captopril--an overview.  Captopril (Capoten; Squibb) is a specific orally active antagonist of peptidyl-dipeptide carboxyhydrolase, the enzyme which converts angiotensin I to angiotensin II and which inactivates bradykinin. Captopril therefore reduces blood pressure in a variety of animal models of hypertension. In 96 studies on 1570 patients, captopril has been shown to be superior to placebo and equivalent to either propranolol or a diuretic in the treatment of essential hypertension. In the management of severe treatment-resistant hypertension, the response to captopril (alone or in combination with a diuretic and/or propranolol) was better than the response to standard triple therapy. Captopril, with digitalis and a diuretic, also improved the haemodynamic and clinical status of patients with refractory congestive heart failure. Side-effects include skin rashes (15%), proteinuria (1,1%, or 0,4% of patients with no prior renal disease) and the nephrotic syndrome (0,9%, or 0,3% of patients with no prior renal disease). Nearly all patients with the nephrotic syndrome in whom renal biopsies were performed were found to have membranous glomerulopathy. Neutropenia (total white cell count less than 1,000/microliter) was found in 33 of over 6,000 patients (0,4%), but in all cases there were other possible causes for this. Captopril is the first of an important group of antihypertensive and afterload-reducing drugs; its major indications are likely to be in the treatment of refractory severe hypertension or congestive heart failure.
<doc id=HeartFailure/14586391> Altered pharmacokinetics and excessive hypotensive effect of candesartan in a patient with the CYP2C91/3 genotype.  An 89-year-old man with severe hypertension (190/82 mm Hg) and chronic heart failure (New York Heart Association class II) despite treatment with benidipine, doxazosin mesylate (INN, doxazosin), and furosemide was given oral candesartan cilexetil (4 mg/d), an angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker metabolized via cytochrome p450 (CYP) 2C9. Two days later, he started to have severe dizziness and returned to the hospital on the fourth day without taking any of his medications. The blood pressure 30 hours after the last dose of candesartan was 126/64 mm Hg. Polymorphism analysis revealed the heterozygous poor metabolizer genotype CYP2C9*1/*3. The area under the concentration-time curve and the mean residence time of candesartan were both increased 2.5-fold, and the oral clearance of candesartan was 48% lower than that of the average elderly Japanese patient with hypertension. These results suggest that the CYP2C9*1/*3 genotype could be associated with decreased clearance and increased plasma concentration of candesartan, potentially enhancing its hypotensive effect.
<doc id=HeartFailure/9032185> Ventilatory and hemodynamic effects of continuous positive airway pressure in left heart failure.  The ventilatory and hemodynamic effects of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) delivered via a face mask (at 0, 5, and 10 cm H2O, and after a return to 0 cm H2O) were studied in nine patients with acute left heart failure (pulmonary artery occlusion pressure [PAOP] > or = 18 mm Hg, and cardiac index [CI] < or = 2.8 L/min/m2). CPAP at 10 cm H2O induced an improvement in lung compliance (60 +/- 10 ml/cm H2O to 87 +/- 20 ml/cm H2O, p < 0.05) and in lung and airway resistance (5.7 +/- 1.0 cm H2O/L/s to 3.4 +/- 1.0 cm H2O/L/s, p < 0.05), a reduction in work of breathing (18 +/- 3 J/min to 12 +/- 2 J/min, p < 0.05), and in the pressure-time index of the respiratory muscles (279 +/- 22 cm H2O/s/min to 174 +/- 25 cm H2O/s/min, p < 0.05), without significant changes in breathing pattern. Despite a significant reduction in the negative swings in intrathoracic pressure (15.2 +/- 1.9 cm H2O to 10.8 +/- 1.8 cm H2O, p < 0.001), no significant change was observed in CI or stroke volume during CPAP. However, mean transmural filling pressures decreased significantly with CPAP, suggesting a better cardiac performance. Neither the level of stroke volume nor of PAOP, was predictive of changes in CI or in stroke volume. In patients with respiratory insufficiency caused by congestive heart failure (CHF), CPAP reduces respiratory muscle effort without altering cardiac output. The slight decrease in mean transmural left and right atrial pressures suggests an improvement in cardiac performance.
<doc id=HeartFailure/23665370> Effect of endurance exercise training on endothelial function and arterial stiffness in older patients with heart failure and preserved ejection fraction: a randomized, controlled, single-blind trial.  The study sought to evaluate the effects of endurance exercise training (ET) on endothelial-dependent flow-mediated arterial dilation (FMD) and carotid artery stiffness, and their potential contributions to the training-related increase in peak exercise oxygen consumption (Vo2) in older patients with heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFPEF).Elderly HFPEF patients have severely reduced peak Vo2, which improves with ET, however, the mechanisms of this improvement are unclear. FMD and arterial distensibility are critical components of the exercise response and are reduced with aging. However, it is unknown whether these improve with ET in elderly HFPEF or contribute to the training-related improvement in peak Vo2.A total of 63 HFPEF patients (age 70 ± 7 years) were randomized to 16 weeks of ET (walking, arm and leg ergometry, n = 32) or attention control (CT) (n = 31). Peak Vo2, brachial artery FMD in response to cuff ischemia, carotid artery distensibility by high-resolution ultrasound, left ventricular function, and quality of life were measured at baseline and follow-up.ET increased peak Vo2 (ET: 15.8 ± 3.3 ml/kg/min vs. CT: 13.8 ± 3.1 ml/kg/min, p = 0.0001) and quality of life. However, brachial artery FMD (ET: 3.8 ± 3.0% vs. CT: 4.3 ± 3.5%, p = 0.88), and carotid arterial distensibility (ET: 0.97 ± 0.56 vs. CT: 1.07 ± 0.34 × 10(-3) mm·mm Hg(-2); p = 0.65) were unchanged. Resting left ventricular systolic and diastolic function were unchanged by ET.In elderly HFPEF patients, 16 weeks of ET improved peak Vo2 without altering endothelial function or arterial stiffness. This suggests that other mechanisms, such as enhanced skeletal muscle perfusion and/or oxygen utilization, may be responsible for the ET-mediated increase in peak Vo2 in older HFPEF patients. (Prospective Aerobic Reconditioning Intervention Study [PARIS]; NCT01113840).Copyright © 2013 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
<doc id=HeartFailure/10358791> An overview of tumor necrosis factor alpha and the failing human heart.  Recent studies have identified the importance of biologically active molecules (e.g., neurohormones) in disease progression in heart failure. In addition to neurohormones, another portfolio of biologically active molecules, termed cytokines, are also expressed in the setting of heart failure. This article reviews recent clinical and experimental material that suggest that the cytokines (e.g., tumor necrosis factor alpha), much like the neurohormones, may represent another class of biologically active molecules that are responsible for the development and progression of heart failure.
<doc id=HeartFailure/26156839> Undetected supraventricular tachycardia causing congestive heart failure: a pitfall of remote monitoring system.  Remote monitoring systems with automated clinician alerts are a milestone development for implantable cardiovascular devices, and improve the quality of life for patients and physicians by reducing the number of conventional clinic visits. In addition, remote monitoring systems can detect many bradyarrhythmias and tachyarrhythmias earlier than traditional methods, although these devices are not perfect. We report the case of an 80-year-old woman with an implanted pacemaker and a remote monitoring system that failed to report acute heart failure at 10 months after implantation. ECG and telemetry revealed relatively slow supraventricular tachycardia, which did not trigger the alert, and catheter ablation successfully controlled the heart failure. Subsequent analysis revealed that the monitoring function had detected the arrhythmia as frequent premature ventricular contraction, although the arrhythmia did not trigger the automated clinician alert. Therefore, remote monitoring systems with accurate settings are essential, although conventional monitoring methods are still important for some patients.2015 BMJ Publishing Group Ltd.
<doc id=HeartFailure/18097271> Addition of the long-axis information to short-axis contours reduces interstudy variability of left-ventricular analysis in cardiac magnetic resonance studies.  To reduce interstudy variability using long-axis information for correcting short-axis (SA) contours at basal and apical level for left-ventricular analysis by magnetic resonance imaging.A total of 20 patients with documented heart failure and 20 volunteers underwent magnetic resonance imaging examination twice for measuring endocardial end-diastolic volume, endocardial end-systolic volume, mass, and ejection fraction. The boundary of the left ventricle, the mitral valve plane, and apex were marked manually on the 2- and 4-chamber long-axis images. Automatic epicardial and endocardial contour detection was performed on the SA images using the intersection of the outlines from the long axis as starting positions. The same observer compared the interstudy variability of this method with analysis that was based on the SA images only.The interstudy variability decreased when information from the long axis was included; for end-systolic volume, 9.6% versus 4.7% (P = 0.00014); for end-diastolic volume, 4.9% versus 2.5% (P = 0.0011); for mass, 7.4% versus 5.0% (P = 0.11); and for ejection fraction 12.2% versus 5.6% (P = 0.0017), respectively.Identification of the mitral valve plane and apex on long-axis images to limit the extent of volume at the base and the apex of the heart reduces interstudy variability for left-ventricular functional assessment.
<doc id=HeartFailure/16171746> Use of the implantable cardioverter-defibrillator in long-term survivors of orthotopic heart transplantation.  Orthotopic heart transplantation is considered an effective treatment for patients with refractory heart failure. The long-term survival of orthotopic heart transplantation recipients has increased over the last several decades, but many long-term survivors of orthotopic heart transplantation develop graft atherosclerosis and associated left ventricular dysfunction. The risk of sudden cardiac death in long-term survivors of orthotopic heart transplantation with these complications is believed to be high. There are no data on the usefulness of implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs) in this population; therefore, we report our early experience with ICD placement in such patients.The purpose of this study was to examine the use of ICDs in adults who are long-term survivors of heart transplantation.We retrospectively reviewed all adult patients who underwent orthotopic heart transplantation at Stanford University Hospital (Stanford, CA, USA) from 1980 to 2004. All patients who received an ICD after transplant were included in this study. We reviewed demographic data, medical history, ejection fraction, presence of graft atherosclerosis, indication for ICD placement, and any device therapy delivered.Of the 925 patients who had orthotopic heart transplantation during this time period, 493 patients were alive at the beginning of the year 2000. Of these patients, 10 ( approximately 2%) had subsequent placement of an ICD. All 10 patients were male. The average age at orthotopic heart transplantation was 37.8 years. The average age at ICD placement was 50.5 years. The average time from orthotopic heart transplantation to ICD placement was 14.6 years. The average ejection fraction at the time of implant was 46.5%. Five of the 10 patients had a low ejection fraction (within this subgroup, the average ejection fraction was 31%, range 15%-45%) and graft atherosclerosis. ICDs were placed because of symptomatic episodes of ventricular tachycardia (3 patients), low ejection fraction and severe graft atherosclerosis without symptoms (3 patients), and after thorough evaluation for otherwise unexplained syncope (4 patients). The average follow-up after device implantation was 13 months. Complications related to ICD placement were an infected ICD system requiring explant in one patient and a lead fracture in another patient. Three patients had subsequent appropriate shocks for ventricular arrhythmias, and one patient underwent a second orthotopic heart transplantation. One patient died of malignancy.Use of the ICD in long-term survivors of orthotopic heart transplantation should be considered in appropriately selected patients. Further data are needed regarding ICD use in this population.
<doc id=HeartFailure/26011246> Clinical presentation, management, in-hospital and 90-day outcomes of heart failure patients in Trivandrum, Kerala, India: the Trivandrum Heart Failure Registry.  To evaluate the presentation, management, and outcomes of patients hospitalized for heart failure (HF) in Trivandrum, India.The Trivandrum Heart Failure Registry (THFR) enrolled consecutive admissions from 13 urban and five rural hospitals in Trivandrum with a primary diagnosis of HF from January to December 2013. Clinical characteristics at presentation, treatment, in-hospital outcomes, and 90-day mortality data were collected. 'Guideline-based' medical treatment was defined as the combination of beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers, and aldosterone receptor blockers in patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction (LVSD).We enrolled 1205 cases (834 men, 69%) into the registry. Mean (standard deviation) age was 61.2 (13.7) years. The most common HF aetiology was ischaemic heart disease (IHD) (72%). Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (≥45%) constituted 26% of the population. The median hospital stay was 6 days (interquartile range = 4-9 days) with an in-hospital mortality rate of 8.5% (95% confidence interval 6.9-10.0). The 90-day all-cause mortality rate was 2.43 deaths per 1000 person-days (95% confidence interval 2.11-2.78). Guideline-based medical treatment was given to 19% and 25% of patients with LVSD during hospital admission and at discharge, respectively. Older age, lower education, poor ejection fraction, higher serum creatinine, New York Heart Association functional class IV, and suboptimal medical treatment were associated with higher risk of 90-day mortality.Patients hospitalized with HF in the THFR were younger, more likely to be men, had a higher prevalence of IHD, reported longer length of hospital stay, and higher mortality compared with published data from other registries. We also identified key areas for improving hospital-based HF medical care in Trivandrum.© 2015 The Authors. European Journal of Heart Failure © 2015 European Society of Cardiology.
<doc id=HeartFailure/23537961> Association of time to reperfusion with left ventricular function and heart failure in patients with acute myocardial infarction treated with primary percutaneous coronary intervention: a systematic review.  Shorter time to reperfusion is associated with a significant reduction in mortality; however, its association with heart failure (HF) is not clearly documented. We conducted a systematic review to examine the association between time to reperfusion and incident HF and/or left ventricular dysfunction.MEDLINE/OVID, EMBASE, Cochrane Library, and Web of Science databases were searched from January 1974 to May 2012 for studies that reported the association between time to reperfusion and incident HF or left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) in patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention.Of 362 nonduplicate abstracts, 71 studies were selected for full-text review. Thirty-three studies were included in the final review, of which 16 were single-center studies, 7 were population-based studies, 7 were subanalyses from randomized controlled trials, and 3 were based on national samples. The pooled data demonstrate that every 1-hour delay in time to reperfusion is associated with a 4% to 12% increased risk of new-onset HF and a 4% relative increase in the risk of incident HF during follow-up. Early reperfusion was associated with a 2% to 8% greater LVEF before discharge and a 3% to 12% larger improvement in absolute LVEF at follow-up compared with the index admission.This systematic review presents evidence that longer time to reperfusion is not only associated with worsened left ventricular systolic function and new-onset HF at the time of index admission, but also with increased risk of HF and reduced improvement in left ventricular systolic function during follow-up.Copyright © 2013 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.
<doc id=HeartFailure/16863485> Prophylaxis against venous thromboembolism in acutely ill medical patients: an observational study.  To determine the risk factors for venous thromboembolism (VTE) and the rates of prophylactic measures used in acutely ill medical patients.Prospective observational study.Academic tertiary care medical center.One hundred seventy-nine patients admitted to three general medical units over 30 consecutive days and hospitalized for at least 3 days.On concurrent review of the patients' medical records, 138 (77.1%) of 179 patients received one or more forms of VTE prophylaxis during their hospital stay. Of 41 (22.9%) patients receiving no VTE prophylaxis, 22 (53.7%) had and 19 (46.3%, or 10.6% of the total population) did not have a documented contraindication to anticoagulation. One hundred ten patients (61.5%) had three or more documented VTE risk factors for VTE. The most common prophylaxis was unfractionated heparin 5000 U injected subcutaneously twice/day. Therapeutic anticoagulation was given to 51 patients (28.5%) at some time during their hospitalization for indications other than VTE treatment. Two developed symptomatic VTE (1.1%) while hospitalized. Four patients (2.2%) receiving anticoagulants had adverse outcomes. One patient had minor bleeding, and one developed heparin-induced thrombocytopenia without thrombosis.Rates of VTE prophylaxis were higher than previously reported rates, although no formalized guidelines, standardized order sets, alerting programs, training, or risk-stratification tools were used during the study period. Rates of adverse events were low.
<doc id=HeartFailure/12440594> Can late survival of patients with moderate ischemic mitral regurgitation be impacted by intervention on the valve?  Ischemic mitral regurgitation is known to be associated with poor long-term outcome after coronary artery bypass grafting; however, our ability to alter that outcome with intervention on the valve is unclear. The decision to address the valve is most challenging for patients with only moderate mitral regurgitation, particularly with the popularization of off-pump surgery. We therefore reviewed early and late outcomes of patients undergoing revascularization with or without mitral valve surgery.Patients with moderate mitral regurgitation undergoing revascularization with and without mitral surgery between January 1991 and September 1996 were identified retrospectively. Operative notes were reviewed and patients with structural valve disease excluded. Perioperative events and late outcomes as determined by telephone contact and search of the social security death index (survival data 97% complete) were compared.One hundred seventy-six patients with moderate mitral regurgitation underwent revascularization alone (n = 142) or with mitral repair or replacement (n = 34). Those undergoing revascularization alone had a higher serum creatinine, somewhat less mitral regurgitation, and lower New York Heart Association functional class preoperatively. Operative mortality was greater with valve surgery (21% vs 9%, p = 0.047). Actuarial survival of both groups at 5 years was similar (52% vs 58%, p = NS); however, when stratified by preoperative functional class, those with more advanced heart failure preoperatively had superior late survival if their mitral valve was intervened upon.The late survival of patients with ischemic mitral regurgitation undergoing coronary revascularization remains poor; however, intervention on the mitral valve appears to benefit those with symptomatic heart failure.
<doc id=HeartFailure/19755712> Charlson Comorbidity Index does not predict long-term mortality in elderly subjects with chronic heart failure.  comorbidity plays a critical role in the high mortality for chronic heart failure (CHF) in the elderly. Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI) is the most extensively studied comorbidity index. No studies are available on the ability of CCI to predict mortality in CHF elderly subjects. The aim of the present study was to assess if CCI was able to predict long-term mortality in a random sample of elderly CHF subjects.long-term mortality after 12-year follow-up in 125 subjects with CHF and 1,143 subjects without CHF was studied. Comorbidity was evaluated using CCI.in elderly subjects stratified for CCI (1-3 and > or =4), mortality was higher in non-CHF subjects with CCI > or =4 (52.4% versus 70%, P < 0.002) but not in those with CHF (75.9% versus 77.6%, P = 0.498, NS). Cox regression analysis on 12 years mortality indicated that both CCI (HR = 1.15; 95% CI = 1.01-1.31; P = 0.035) and CHF (HR = 1.27; 95% CI = 1.04-8.83; P = 0.003) were predictive of mortality. When Cox analysis was performed by selecting the presence and the absence of CHF, CCI was predictive of mortality in the absence but not in the presence of CHF.CCI does not predict long-term mortality in elderly subjects with CHF.
<doc id=HeartFailure/15242866> Anti-tumour necrosis factor alpha therapy in rheumatoid arthritis: an update on safety.  Anti-TNFalpha therapy may have associated risks of serious infection, congestive heart failure, malignancy, and multiple sclerosis. The magnitude of these risks is difficult to assess. This article reviews publications on the current knowledge about the safety of these agents.
<doc id=HeartFailure/10498150> Prognostic significance of oxygen uptake kinetics during low level exercise in patients with heart failure.  Oxygen uptake kinetics during low-intensity exercise were investigated in 48 patients with congestive heart failure to assess their prognostic value compared with established predictors of prognosis including neurohumoral stimulation. Mean response time of oxygen uptake during low-intensity exercise, which does not require the patient's maximal effort, appears to be an important predictor of prognosis in these patients.
<doc id=HeartFailure/25190730> ESRD and death after heart failure in CKD.  CKD is a risk factor for heart failure, but there is no data on the risk of ESRD and death after recurrent hospitalizations for heart failure. We sought to determine how interim heart failure hospitalizations modify the subsequent risk of ESRD or death before ESRD in patients with CKD. We retrospectively identified 2887 patients with a GFR between 15 and 60 ml/min per 1.73 m2 referred between January of 2001 and December of 2008 to a nephrology clinic in Toronto, Canada. We ascertained interim first, second, and third heart failure hospitalizations as well as ESRD and death before ESRD outcomes from administrative data. Over a median follow-up time of 3.01 (interquartile range=1.56-4.99) years, interim heart failure hospitalizations occurred in 359 (12%) patients, whereas 234 (8%) patients developed ESRD, and 499 (17%) patients died before ESRD. Compared with no heart failure hospitalizations, one, two, or three or more heart failure hospitalizations increased the adjusted hazard ratio of ESRD from 4.89 (95% confidence interval [95% CI], 3.21 to 7.44) to 10.27 (95% CI, 5.54 to 19.04) to 14.16 (95% CI, 8.07 to 24.83), respectively, and the adjusted hazard ratio death before ESRD from 3.30 (95% CI, 2.55 to 4.27) to 4.20 (95% CI, 2.82 to 6.25) to 6.87 (95% CI, 4.96 to 9.51), respectively. We conclude that recurrent interim heart failure is associated with a stepwise increase in the risk of ESRD and death before ESRD in patients with CKD.Copyright © 2015 by the American Society of Nephrology.
<doc id=HeartFailure/16541345> [Current structures of cardiac centers].  The Working Group for Congenital Heart Surgery and Pediatric Heart Surgery of the German Society for Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery (GSTCVS) has analysed and recommended structures for congenital heart surgery departments in Germany. The document was worked out according to a similar paper approved earlier by the European Association for Cardio-thoracic Surgery (EACTS). The Working Group unifies the majority of cardiac surgeons involved in congenital heart surgery in Germany. Current structures of cardiac centers vary. Therefore the aim of this document is to elucidate additional structural needs for both highly specialized institutions and those for standard care. Specialized centers should allow for treatment of newborns and adult patients with congenital heart disease, include implementation of assist devices and transplantation, possess research facilities and ensure highest standards of education and training. Standard care units do not necessarily need to cater for the above mentioned spectrum. However, the evaluation of quality of care should be given priority in all centers involved in care of patients with congenital heart disease. Data acquisition and transfer must be guaranteed to both the GSTCVS and EACTS in order to ensure national and international comparison of surgical results. This may also give further guidance for improved patient care.
<doc id=HeartFailure/14675580> Usefulness of B-type natriuretic peptide in hypertensive patients with exertional dyspnea and normal left ventricular ejection fraction and correlation with new echocardiographic indexes of systolic and diastolic function.  B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels increase in systolic heart failure (HF). However, the value of BNP in hypertensive patients with suspected diastolic HF (symptoms suggestive of HF but normal ejection fraction) and its relation to myocardial function in these patients is unclear. We prospectively studied 72 ambulatory hypertensive subjects (40 women, mean age 58 +/- 8 years) with exertional dyspnea and ejection fraction > or =50%. Diastolic function was evaluated with transmitral and pulmonary venous Doppler, mitral annular velocities (pulsed-wave tissue Doppler), and flow propagation velocity (color M-mode). Systolic function was assessed with strain and strain rate derived from color tissue Doppler imaging. BNP was related to myocardial function and the presence or absence of global diastolic dysfunction. By conventional Doppler criteria, 34 patients had normal left ventricular diastolic function and 38 had isolated diastolic dysfunction. BNP values were higher in patients with diastolic dysfunction (46 +/- 48 vs 20 +/- 20 pg/ml, p=0.004) and were related independently to blood pressure, systolic strain rate, left atrial function (p<0.01 for all), and age (p=0.015). Patients with diastolic dysfunction and pseudonormal filling had higher BNP levels compared with impaired relaxation (89 +/- 47 vs 35 +/- 42 pg/ml, p=0.001). However, 79% of patients with diastolic dysfunction had BNP levels within the normal range. We conclude that in ambulatory hypertensive patients with symptoms suggestive of mild HF and normal ejection fraction, BNP is related to atrial and ventricular systolic parameters, blood pressure, and age. Although elevated in the presence of diastolic dysfunction, the BNP level mostly is in the normal range and, therefore, has limited diagnostic value in stable patients with suspected diastolic HF.
<doc id=HeartFailure/12366517> Complete recovery after 2 h of cardiopulmonary resuscitation following high-dose prostaglandin treatment for atonic uterine haemorrhage.  We report the case of a 31-year-old woman who delivered twins by Caesarean section in whom atonic uterine haemorrhage developed 6 h postoperatively. During conservative treatment with the high-dose prostaglandin analogs sulprostone (PGE(2)) and dinoprost (PGF(2alpha)), acute pulmonary oedema and cardiac decompensation developed and, subsequently, the patient suffered cardiopulmonary arrest. After a 2h-period of cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), it was possible to restore and stabilize circulation under the highest dose of catecholamines. Despite 2h of CPR, the patient was discharged from hospital 3 months later without any major physical or neurocognitive deficit.
<doc id=HeartFailure/9140004> BNP: pathophysiological and potential therapeutic roles in acute congestive heart failure.  Controversy persists regarding the acute responsiveness of atrial (ANP) and brain (BNP) natriuretic peptides in pathophysiological conditions such as acute heart failure (AHF). This study was designed to test the hypothesis that AHF is characterized by selective activation of ANP, but not BNP. We also hypothesized that BNP replacement in AHF would reduce cardiac filling pressures, increase sodium excretion, and inhibit circulating renin. Two groups of anesthetized dogs underwent rapid left ventricular pacing to induce AHF. Group 1 (n = 7) served as control and group 2 (n = 7) received canine BNP (10 ng x kg(-1) x min(-1)). Cardiorenal parameters, circulating natriuretic peptides, 3',5'-cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), and plasma renin activity (PRA) were determined at baseline and during AHF in both groups. AHF was characterized by reductions in cardiac output (2.3 +/- 0.2 vs. 3.7 +/- 0.3 l/min, P < 0.05), pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP; 11.7 +/- 0.8 vs. 5.1 +/- 0.3 mmHg, P < 0.05), and selective activation of ANP (250 +/- 51 vs. 39 +/- 13 pg/ml, P < 0.05), with no increase in circulating BNP (49 +/- 15 vs. 60 +/- 16 pg/ml, P = not significant). Compared with control, exogenous supplemental BNP in AHF resulted in marked increases in circulating cGMP (65 +/- 6 vs. 18 +/- 5 pg/ml, P < 0.05), with reductions in PCWP (9.1 +/- 0.9 vs. 12.9 +/- 1.1 mmHg, P < 0.05) and increased urinary sodium excretion (120 +/- 36.8 vs. 24 +/- 6.3 microeq/min, P < 0.05) via reductions in distal tubular sodium reabsorption (94.3 +/- 1.8 vs. 98.0 +/- 0.4%, P < 0.05). Exogenous BNP prevented the increase in PRA that occurred in the control group. We conclude that AHF is characterized by a failure to increase circulating BNP underscoring differential physiological and pathophysiological roles for ANP and BNP in states of immediate cardiac overload. These studies also support a potential role for BNP in the therapeutics of AHF.
<doc id=HeartFailure/6723837> Decreased glucose in RA-cell-positive pleural effusion: correlation of pleural glucose, lactic dehydrogenase and protein concentration to the presence of RA-cells.  A significant correlation between RA-cells in the pleural fluid and lowered concentration of glucose, increased LDH activity and protein content was demonstrated in pleural effusions of diverse etiology. The finding might suggest a common metabolic reaction of the pleura, the mechanism of which remains unexplained at present.
<doc id=HeartFailure/17652893> Inhibition of endogenous nitric oxide synthase augments contractile response to adenylyl cyclase stimulation without altering mechanical efficiency in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy.  Increased nitric oxide (NO) in the failing heart attenuates the myocardial contractile response to beta-adrenergic receptor stimulation. However, the physiological effects of NO on the beta-adrenergic post-receptor signaling system are unknown. The objective of the present study was to examine the effects of cardiac NO synthase (NOS) inhibition on left ventricular (LV) hemodynamics and mechanoenergetics in response to adenylyl cyclase stimulation in human heart failure.The study group comprised 13 patients with heart failure because of idiopathic cardiomyopathy (IDC). Emax was examined as an index of LV contractility, LV external work (EW), pressure-volume area (PVA), myocardial oxygen consumption (MVO2), and mechanical efficiency (EW/MVO2) with the use of conductance and coronary sinus thermodilution catheters before and during colforsin daropate infusion, and during concurrent infusion of colforsin daropate with the NOS inhibitor, NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA; 200 micromol). Colforsin daropate increased Emax by 53% and EW by 18%, and reduced PVA by 14%, without altering MVO2 or mechanical efficiency. The combination of colforsin daropate with L-NMMA further increased Emax by 26% and reduced PVA by 9%, without altering MVO2 or mechanical efficiency.These findings suggest endogenous NO may modulate beta-adrenergic post-receptor pathways and preserve myocardial efficiency in patients with IDC.
<doc id=HeartFailure/11511427> Breath isoprene in patients with heart failure.  Chronic heart failure (CHF) is characterised by increased vascular resistance. This increased after load on the left ventricle contributes to the vicious cycle that leads to progression of myocardial failure, multiple organ failure and death. There is evidence for increased oxidative stress in heart failure, which will influence the myocardium but also peripheral vasculature endothelium.The aim of the present study was to examine the production of isoprene, reputed to reflect oxidative stress, in patients with CHF compared to control subjects.Twelve patients with CHF and thirty-one healthy control subjects free from heart disease were studied. Breath was collected via a two-way non-re-breathing valve into a 60-l gas collection bag. A sample of ambient air was collected at the same time. A measured aliquot of patient breath and ambient air (approx. 1.5 l) was adsorbed onto a gas adsorption tube packed with poropak-Q. Isoprene was measured using GC/MS and the production rate calculated. All samples of breath were collected at 10.00 h after subjects had been sitting at rest for 15 min.Breath isoprene production in subjects with CHF was significantly reduced compared to controls 83(23) vs. 168(20) pmol min(-1) kg(-1).Breath isoprene does not directly reflect oxidative stress in CHF.
<doc id=HeartFailure/20009044> Clinical effectiveness of implantable cardioverter-defibrillators among medicare beneficiaries with heart failure.  The clinical effectiveness of implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs) in older patients with heart failure has not been established, and older patients have been underrepresented in previous studies.We identified patients with heart failure who were aged 65 years or older and were eligible for an ICD, had left ventricular ejection fraction of 35% or less, and were discharged alive from hospitals participating in the Organized Program to Initiate Lifesaving Treatment in Hospitalized Patients With Heart Failure and the Get With the Guidelines-Heart Failure quality-improvement programs during the period January 1, 2003, through December 31, 2006. We matched the patients to Medicare claims to examine long-term outcomes. The main outcome measure was all-cause mortality over 3 years. The study population included 4685 patients who were discharged alive and were eligible for an ICD. Mean age was 75.2 years, 60% of the patients were women, mean ejection fraction was 25%, and 376 (8.0%) patients received an ICD before discharge. Mortality was significantly lower among patients who received an ICD compared with those who did not (19.8% versus 27.6% at 1 year, 30.9% versus 41.9% at 2 years, and 38.1% versus 52.3% at 3 years; P<0.001 for all comparisons). The inverse probability-weighted adjusted hazard of mortality at 3 years for patients receiving an ICD was 0.71 (95% CI, 0.56 to 0.91).Medicare beneficiaries hospitalized with heart failure and left ventricular ejection fraction of 35% or less who were selected for ICD therapy had lower risk-adjusted long-term mortality compared with those who did not receive an ICD. Clinical Trial Registration- clinicaltrials.gov. Identifier: NCT00344513.
<doc id=HeartFailure/24263122> Soluble ST2 serum concentration and renal function in heart failure.  Soluble ST2 (sST2) provides important prognostic information in patients with heart failure (HF). How sST2 serum concentration is related to renal function is uncertain. We evaluated the association between sST2 and renal function and compared its prognostic value in HF patients with renal insufficiency.Patients (n = 879; median age 70.4 years; 71.8% men) were divided into 3 subgroups according to estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR): ≥60 mL/min/1.73 m(2) (n = 337); 30-59 mL/min/1.73 m(2) (n = 352); and <30 mL/min/1.73 m(2) (n = 190). sST2 (rho = -0.16; P < .001), N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (rho = -0.40; P < .001), and high-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (rho = -0.47; P < .001) inversely correlated with eGFR. All-cause mortality was the primary end point. During a median follow-up of 3.46 years, 312 patients (35%) died, 246 of them from the subgroup of 542 patients with eGFR <60 mL/min/1.73 m(2) (45%). Biomarker combination including sST2 showed best discrimination, calibration, and reclassification metrics in renal insufficiency patients (net reclassification improvement 16.6 [95% confidence interval (CI) 8.1-25; P < .001]; integrated discrimination improvement 4.2 [95% CI 2.2-6.2; P < .001]). Improvement in reclassification was higher in these patients than in the total cohort.The prognostic value of sST2 was not influenced by renal function. On top of other biomarkers, sST2 improved long-term prediction in patients with renal insufficiency even more than in the total cohort.Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
<doc id=HeartFailure/14966788> Changes in myocardial gene expression associated with beta-blocker therapy in patients with chronic heart failure.  The left ventricular functional recovery by beta-blocker therapy is now attributed to time-dependent biologic effects on cardiomyocytes.To elucidate the cellular mechanism of these biologic effects, we treated 9 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy for 4 months with beta-blockers and examined the gene expressions linked to an improvement of left ventricular ejection fraction (EF). Gene expressions of the biopsied right ventricular endomyocardium were assessed by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. A decrease in beta-myosin heavy chain (1.23+/-0.49 versus 0.86+/-0.45, P<.05) was observed 4 months after the administration of beta-blockers. The expression levels of both sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) ATPase (SERCA) (0.80+/-0.28 versus 1.39+/-0.44, P<.01) and phospholamban (PLB) (0.49+/-0.08 versus 0.88+/-0.34, P<.05) increased, whereas the expression levels of Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchanger (NCX), beta-adrenoreceptor kinase 1, and ryanodine receptor 2 were unchanged. The SERCA/NCX ratio (0.68+/-0.14 versus 0.96+/-0.33, P<.05) also increased. The increase in SERCA mRNA expression correlated with the degree of changes in EF (%deltaEF) (r=0.679, P<.05), and none of changes in these genes expression correlated with changes in the plasma brain natriuretic peptide concentration.The functional recovery resulting from beta-blockers may be associated with the restoration of the unfavorable gene expression that controls Ca(2+) handlings in the failing heart.
<doc id=HeartFailure/21958791> Obese patients and mechanical circulatory support: weight loss, adverse events, and outcomes.  Obesity and heart failure are increasingly common, but the outcomes, weight changes, and adverse events of patients with advanced heart failure and obesity on mechanical support is not well described.We retrospectively reviewed all non-underweight patients with durable mechanical support at a single institution from January 2000 until December 2008 and compared outcomes, weight change, and Interagency Registry for Mechanically Assisted Circulatory Support-defined adverse events between obese and nonobese patients.A total of 169 patients were included; 113 (67%) nonobese and 56 (33%) obese. Baseline characteristics, pump types, and implant duration were similar for both populations with the exception of more diabetes (61% vs 26%, p < 0.0001) and hypertension (61% vs 42%, p = 0.019) in the obese. Outcomes on mechanical support at 6 months were not different between groups. There was no significant difference between the nonobese and obese groups in the change in body mass index (-0.3 vs -1.0 mg/m(2), p = 0.29) over the duration of support. Obese patients, as compared with the nonobese, had higher incidence rates of sepsis (64.5% vs 34.7%, respectively, p = 0.006) and reoperation for infectious complications (34.2% vs 13.3%, respectively, p = 0.014). Obese patients also had a higher cumulative incidence of sepsis and reoperation for infection. Two-year posttransplant outcomes were not different in the obese and nonobese.Obese patients have similar outcomes on mechanical support, but at the cost of a higher cumulative incidence of sepsis and reoperations for infection; however, obese patients lose little weight while on mechanical support.Copyright © 2011 The Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
<doc id=HeartFailure/10599607> Quality of care by race and gender for congestive heart failure and pneumonia.  Variations in the rates of major procedures by race and gender are well described, but few studies have assessed the quality of care by race and gender for basic hospital services.To assess quality of care by race and gender.Retrospective review of medical records.Stratified random sample of 2,175 Medicare beneficiaries hospitalized for congestive heart failure or pneumonia in Illinois, New York, and Pennsylvania during 1991 and 1992.Explicit process criteria and implicit review by physicians.In adjusted analyses, black patients with congestive heart failure or pneumonia received lower quality of care overall than other patients with these conditions by both explicit process criteria and implicit review (P < 0.05). On explicit measures, overall quality of care did not differ by gender for either condition, but significant differences were noted on explicit subscales. Women received worse cognitive care than men from physicians for both conditions, better cognitive care from nurses for pneumonia, and better therapeutic care for congestive heart failure (P < 0.05). Women received worse quality of care than men by implicit review (P = 0.03) for congestive heart failure but not pneumonia.Consistent racial differences in quality of care persist in basic hospital services for two common medical conditions. Physicians, nurses, and policy makers should strive to eliminate these differences. Gender differences in quality of care are less pronounced and may vary by condition and type of provider or service.
<doc id=HeartFailure/24492424> Home blood pressure monitoring in heart transplant recipients: comparison with ambulatory blood pressure monitoring.  How reliable is home blood pressure monitoring (HBPM) in heart transplant recipients is not known. Possibly, it may underestimate hypertensive burden, because blood pressure (BP) nondipper profile is frequent among these patients. This prospective study has been designed to determine whether HBPM adequately identifies hypertension in heart transplant recipients.We compared HBPM with ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) for the diagnosis of uncontrolled hypertension in 74 patients 13.5±6.7 years after heart transplantation. HBPM was measured with a validated semiautomatic device twice every morning and twice every evening on 7 consecutive days, within 15 days of ABPM. We also measured the relationship between HBPM, ABPM, and organ damage as measured by albuminuria and left ventricular mass.A nondipper profile was found in 53 (72%) patients. HBPM and ABPM were close according to Pearson bivariate correlations. There was no significant correlation between left ventricular mass and BP either at HBPM or ABPM. Proteinuria significantly correlated with systolic BP either at HBPM (R=0.42; P=0.0002) or ABPM (R=0.25; P=0.03). HBPM adequately classified 61 of 74 (82%) patients as hypertensives or as nonhypertensives or controlled hypertensives.Despite a high prevalence of nondipper profile, HBPM gives a reliable estimate of BP burden in most heart transplant recipients. Thus, our results strongly suggest that HBPM is useful for the long-term follow-up of heart transplant recipients.
<doc id=HeartFailure/23564604> Chronic therapy with a partial adenosine A1-receptor agonist improves left ventricular function and remodeling in dogs with advanced heart failure.  Adenosine elicits cardioprotection through A1-receptor activation. Therapy with adenosine A1-receptor agonists, however, is limited by undesirable actions of full agonism, such as bradycardia. This study examined the effects of capadenoson (CAP), a partial adenosine A1-receptor agonist, on left ventricular (LV) function and remodeling in dogs with heart failure.Twelve dogs with microembolization-induced heart failure were randomized to 12 weeks oral therapy with CAP (7.5 mg BID; n=6) or to no therapy (control; n=6). LV end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes, ejection fraction, plasma norepinephrine, and n-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide were measured before (pre) and 1 and 12 weeks after therapy (post). LV tissue obtained at post was used to assess volume fraction of interstitial fibrosis, sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase-2a activity, expression of mitochondria uncoupling proteins (UCP) and glucose transporters (GLUT). In controls, end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes increased and ejection fraction decreased significantly from pre to post (ejection fraction, 30±2 versus 27±1%; P<0.05). In CAP-treated dogs, end-diastolic volume was unchanged; ejection fraction increased significantly after 1 week (36±2 versus 27±2%; P<0.05) with a further increase at post (39±2%; P<0.05), whereas end-systolic volume decreased. CAP significantly decreased volume fraction of interstitial fibrosis, normalized sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase-2a activity and expression of UCP-2 and UCP-3, and GLUT-1 and GLUT-2 and significantly decreased plasma norepinephrine and n-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide.In heart failure dogs, CAP improves LV function and prevents progressive remodeling. Improvement of LV systolic function occurs early after initiating therapy. The results support development of partial adenosine A1-receptor agonists for the treatment of chronic heart failure.
<doc id=HeartFailure/23806195> Intramyocardial autologous cell engraftment in patients with ischaemic heart failure: a meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials.  Intramyocardial cellular delivery provides a promising therapeutic strategy for ischaemic cardiac dysfunction. However, individual studies have reported controversial results.Relevant trials were identified by systematic search of MEDLINE, EMBASE, the Cochrane database, and CINAH database. Studies, which applied randomised design and compared intramyocardial cell injection with placebo or optimal medical therapy in patients with chronic ischaemic heart failure, were eligible.A total of 210 participants in five randomised controlled trials were included. The pooled analyses showed that cell therapy did not significantly improve left ventricular ejection fraction compared with the control (95% CI -0.35 to 0.31, p=0.91). Nevertheless, cell therapy provided a benefit in increasing 6-min walk distance (95% CI 21.09 m-142.62 m, p=0.008), improving MLHF score (95% CI -25.21 to -3.55, p=0.009), and lowering the incidence of NYHA functional class deterioration (95% CI 0.05-0.76, p=0.02). However, the novel procedure did not result in a significant reduction in all-cause mortality. Conversely, cell therapy did not significantly increase the risk of ventricular tachycardia or acute heart failure, however we were underpowered to evaluate these endpoints.Intramyocardial cell therapy was feasible in treating patients with ischaemic heart failure.Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier B.V.
<doc id=HeartFailure/24655024> Disruption of histamine H2 receptor slows heart failure progression through reducing myocardial apoptosis and fibrosis.  Histamine H2 receptor (H2R) blockade has been reported to be beneficial for patients with chronic heart failure (CHF), but the mechanisms involved are not entirely clear. In the present study, we assessed the influences of H2R disruption on left ventricular (LV) dysfunction and the mechanisms involved in mitochondrial dysfunction and calcineurin-mediated myocardial fibrosis. H2R-knockout mice and their wild-type littermates were subjected to transverse aortic constriction (TAC) or sham surgery. The influences of H2R activation or inactivation on mitochondrial function, apoptosis and fibrosis were evaluated in cultured neonatal rat cardiomyocytes and fibroblasts as well as in murine hearts. After 4 weeks, H2R-knockout mice had higher echocardiographic LV fractional shortening, a larger contractility index, a significantly lower LV end-diastolic pressure, and more importantly, markedly lower pulmonary congestion compared with the wild-type mice. Similar results were obtained in wild-type TAC mice treated with H2R blocker famotidine. Histological examinations showed a lower degree of cardiac fibrosis and apoptosis in H2R-knockout mice. H2R activation increased mitochondrial permeability and induced cell apoptosis in cultured cardiomyocytes, and also enhanced the protein expression of calcineurin, nuclear factor of activated T-cell and fibronectin in fibroblasts rather than in cardiomyocytes. These findings indicate that a lack of H2R generates resistance towards heart failure and the process is associated with the inhibition of cardiac fibrosis and apoptosis, adding to the rationale for using H2R blockers to treat patients with CHF. 
<doc id=HeartFailure/26093752> Anesthetic Management for Left Ventricular Assist Device Implantation Without Using Cardiopulmonary Bypass: Case Series.  Ventricular assist devices are an alternative to medical treatment in patients with hemodynamic disturbances related to acute or chronic congestive heart failure. In this case series, we present our anesthesia management for implantation of left ventricular assist device (LVAD) with thoracotomy.Sixteen patients with end-stage heart failure undergoing LVAD implantation via thoracotomy between November 2012 and August 2014 were analyzed prospectively. Preoperative characteristics, intraoperative hemodynamic and respiratory parameters, use of anesthetic and blood products, and durations of mechanical ventilation, hospital, and intensive care stays were recorded.Sixteen patients (mean age, 54.6 ± 13 years) were investigated. Single-lung ventilation was applied to 2 patients. Cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) was required in 5 patients. Intraoperative ketamine, midazolam, fentanyl, and rocuronium requirements were 112 ± 63 mg, 5.5 ± 3.5 mg, 438 ± 187 μg, and 179 ± 49 mg, respectively. Requirements of fresh donor blood, fresh frozen plasma, and thrombocyte and erythrocyte suspension were 1.19 ± 1, 1 ± 0.8, 0.44 ± 0.5, and 0.25 ± 0.7 U, respectively. Durations of mechanical ventilation, intensive care unit, and hospital stay were 46 ± 53 hours, 8.2 ± 6.6 days, and 20.5 ± 11.6 days, respectively. Twelve patients were discharged from hospital with full recovery and 2 patients died; 2 patients are still receiving treatment in the hospital.A left thoracotomy approach can be used without CPB, because it reduces the incidences of pump complications and blood transfusion. In addition, this case series showed that the implantation of LVAD by thoracotomy can be implemented securely with single-lumen endotracheal tube without single-lung ventilation.Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
<doc id=HeartFailure/2133710> [Recovery of severely decompensated hearts with a left ventricular assist device].  We evaluated the limits of recovery of decompensated hearts experimentally and clinically and studied the problems of applying a left ventricular assist device (LVAD). In the chronic experiments, 16 adult goats were studied as follows: Group I consisted of seven with left ventricular infarction in a 70-80% area of the free wall induced by the multiple-ligation method; Group II, three with infarcted areas larger than 80% of the free wall; Group III, three with a 30 min anoxic arrest, and Group IV, a 45-min anoxic arrest. An LVAD was applied in all goats, and a right ventricular assist device was applied simultaneously for two goats in Group IV. Clinically, 21 patients receiving treatment with an LVAD from December 1982 to September 1988 in our center were examined. No goat in Groups II and IV could be weaned from the LVAD. Thus, the severity of artificial heart failure in Groups I and III was considered to be the limit for accomplishing restoration. In successfully-weaned cases, both in experimental and clinical settings, periods of LVAD therapy with or without IABP were less than two weeks, which was thought to be the upper time limits for LVAD application. All but one successfully-weaned patients were alive in the experiment, while clinically many patients died of multiple organ failures regardless of the results of the LVAD assistance. Analysis of data suggested that the difference was caused by the durations of the LVAD applications and weanings, the degree of right ventricular failure, the doses of catecholamine used, and the systemic care afforded, especially during tracheal intubation.
<doc id=HeartFailure/23551503> Donor-specific antibodies: can they predict C4d deposition in pediatric heart recipients?  There is limited evidence regarding the utility of circulating DSA in surveillance for AMR of pediatric heart recipients. Our hypothesis is that quantitation of DSA improves their power for predicting a C4d+, an integral component in the current diagnostic criteria of AMR. All pediatric recipients transplanted between 10/2005 and 1/2011 were retrospectively reviewed for DSA determined within 48 h of EMB. C4d+ was defined as >25% endothelial cell staining by immunohistochemical methods. A total of 183 paired DSA-EMB determinations were identified in 60 patients, a median of three paired studies per patient (range: 1-9). DSA were detected in 60 of these determinations. A receiver-operating characteristic plot identified a threshold single-antibody MFI of >6000 that strongly correlated with C4d+ (p < 0.0001) with a high negative predictive value (0.97) and specificity (0.95). The sensitivity and positive predictive values were 0.71 and 0.60, respectively. The predictive power of single-antigen DSA for C4d deposition was improved in pediatric heart recipients using an institution-specific MFI threshold value. In post-transplant care, quantitative DSA should be an essential component in the surveillance for AMR. © 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S.
<doc id=HeartFailure/9327179> Therapy of congestive heart failure in elderly persons.  LVEF should be measured in all elderly persons with CHF Underlying causes and precipitating causes of CHF should be treated. Persons with CHF associated with abnormal LVEF should be treated with a low sodium diet, diuretics, and ACE inhibitors. If CHF persists, digoxin should be added. If CHF still persists, isosorbide dinitrate plus hydralazine should be added. If CHF still persists, a beta blocker should also be added. However, calcium channel blockers should not be used. Persons with CHF associated with normal LVEF should be treated with a low sodium diet, diuretics, and ACE inhibitors. If CHF persists, a beta blocker, isosorbide dinitrate plus hydralazine, or a calcium channel blocker should be added to the therapeutic regimen. If sinus rhythm is present, digoxin should not be used. Persons with CHF and abnormal or normal LVEF unable to tolerate ACE inhibitors should be treated with losartan.
<doc id=HeartFailure/14499869> Decreased cardiac activity of AMP deaminase in subjects with the AMPD1 mutation--a potential mechanism of protection in heart failure.  Possession of the C34T (Glu12Stop) nonsense mutation in the AMP-deaminase 1 (AMPD1) gene has been shown to be associated with improved prognosis in heart failure and ischemic heart disease. The most likely event leading to these clinical effects is a reduced capacity of the AMP deamination pathway and increased production of cardio-protective adenosine. However, since AMPD1 is predominantly expressed in skeletal muscle, the protective effects could be related not only to local cardiac changes, but also to a systemic mechanism. In the present study we evaluated the effect of the C34T mutation on cardiac AMP-deaminase activity and on the systemic changes in adenosine production.The presence of the C34T mutation was assayed by single-stranded conformational polymorphism (SSCP). Analysis of the AMPD1 genotype and measurement of enzyme activities was performed on 27 patients with heart failure (HF). In addition, blood adenosine concentration was measured by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (LC/MS) in 21 healthy subjects with established AMPD1 genotype at rest and following exhaustive exercise.Cardiac AMP-deaminase activity in heterozygotes (C/T) was 0.59+/-0.02 nmol/min/g wet wt-about half of the activity found in normal wild-type (C/C) individuals (1.06+/-0.09 nmol/min/g wet wt, P=0.003). There were no significant differences in the activities of any other enzymes between subjects with the C/T or C/C genotype. Resting venous blood adenosine concentration was similar in subjects with C/C, C/T and homozygous for the mutated allele (T/T) genotype. Following exercise, a significant increase in adenosine was observed in T/T subjects (by 0.013+/-0.009 micromol/l, P=0.035) but not in C/C (0.003+/-0.009 micromol/l) or C/T (-0.002+/-0.011 micromol/l).Our findings indicate that the C34T mutation of AMPD1 leads to a decrease in cardiac enzyme activity of AMP-deaminase without changes in any other adenosine-regulating enzymes, highlighting the importance of local cardiac metabolic changes. Systemic (blood) changes in adenosine concentration were apparent only in homozygous subjects and therefore may play a relatively small part in cardio-protection.
<doc id=HeartFailure/7436994> Morphological changes accompanying physiological changes in atrial stretch receptors.  A shunt connecting the descending aorta and posterior vena cava was established surgically in six mongrel dogs. All animals subsequently developed hemodynamic and clinical signs of congestive heart failure at which time the shunt was closed. Six to seven weeks after ligation of the shunt, activity of the left atrial stretch receptors was recorded and found to be similar to that of sham-operated dogs. Methylene blue-stained sections of left atrial endocardium indicated that approximately one-third of the receptors were normal in histological appearance. The remaining two-thirds were fragmented and degenerate. Evidence is presented which indicates that structural changes in these receptors parallel their changes in physiological activity.
<doc id=HeartFailure/26216649> Comparison of the reliability of E/E' to estimate pulmonary capillary wedge pressure in heart failure patients with preserved ejection fraction versus those with reduced ejection fraction.  Accurate assessment of pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) is essential for physicians to effectively manage patients with acute decompensated heart failure. The ratio of early transmittal velocity to tissue Doppler mitral annular early diastolic velocity (E/E') is used to estimate PCWP noninvasively in a wide range of cardiac patients. However, it remains contentious as to whether mitral E/E' is a reliable predictor of PCWP. In the present study, acute heart failure patients were divided into two groups on the basis of left ventricular (LV) systolic function: those with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) and those with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF). The usefulness of mitral E/E' in estimating PCWP was compared between the two groups. Fifty consecutive patients who were admitted with acute decompensated heart failure and underwent both right-sided cardiac catheterization and transthoracic echocardiography during hospitalization were analyzed retrospectively. Pearson's correlation was used to evaluate associations between Doppler parameters and PCWP. E/E' was positively correlated with PCWP (r = 0.56, P = 0.01) in the heart failure with preserved ejection fraction group. However, no significant relationship was observed between PCWP and mitral E/E' (P = 0.85) in the heart failure with reduced ejection fraction group. There were no significant correlations between any of the conventional parameters considered (LVEF, left atrial dimension, E/A, IVRT, and DT) with PCWP in either group. In conclusion, mitral E/E' is useful for estimating PCWP in patients with acute heart failure with preserved ejection fraction but may not in those with reduced ejection fraction.
<doc id=HeartFailure/24566393> Hypoxia, not hypercapnia, induces cardiorespiratory failure in rats.  Mechanical respiratory loads induce cardiorespiratory failure, presumably by increasing O2 demand concurrently with decreases in O2 availability (decreased PaO2). We tested the hypothesis that asphyxia alone can cause cardiorespiratory failure (failure) in pentobarbital-anesthetized rats. We also tested the hypothesis that hypoxia, not hypercapnia, is responsible by supplying supplemental O2 during mechanical loading in a separate group of rats. Asphyxia (mean PaO2 and PaCO2 of 43 and 69mmHg, respectively) resulted in failure, evident as a slowing of mean respiratory frequency (133-83breaths/min) and a sudden and large drop in mean arterial pressure (71-47mmHg), after 214±66min (n=16; range 117-355min). Neither respiratory drive nor heart rate decreased, indicating that failure was peripheral, not central. Of 8 rats tested after 3h of asphyxia for the presence in blood of cardiac troponin T, all were positive. In an additional 6 rats, normocapnic hypoxia (mean PaCO2 and PaO2 were 39±2.2 and 41±3.1mmHg, respectively) caused failure after an average 205min (range 181-275min), no different from that of asphyxic rats. In the 6 rats that breathed O2 during an initially moderate inspiratory resistive load, endurances exceeded 7h (failure occurring only because we increased the load after 6h) and tracheal pressure and left ventricular dP/dt were maintained despite supercarbia (PaCO2>150mmHg). Thus, asphyxia alone can induce failure, the failure is due to hypoxia, not hypercapnia, and hypercapnia has minimal effects on cardiac and respiratory muscle function in the presence of hyperoxia. Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
<doc id=HeartFailure/22132406> Rupture sinus of Valsalva in a patient with dextrocardia. Case report.  Ruptured sinus of Valsalva (RSOV) is a rare disease with a wide range of clinical manifestations, from asymptomatic murmur to cardiogenic shock and death. We present the case of a young woman known with dextrocardia and pulmonary agenesia; she was diagnosed with RSOV and during follow-up, with endocarditis. Her evolution was good despite the association of severe heart conditions and the refusal of surgical intervention.
<doc id=HeartFailure/10754738> [Amyloid heart disease diagnosed with echocardiography].  A sixty years old woman with amyloid heart disease has been presented. Postural hypotension was the main symptom in this case. Pneumonia and the developing congestive heart failure was the cause of death. Only the last echocardiographic examination: hypertrophied interventicular septum with a peculiar speckled appearance of myocardium, together with low voltage electrocardiography made possible to confirm this diagnosis. It was shown in this case, how difficult it is to diagnose amyloid heart disease. Low ejection fraction together with diastolic abnormalities is usually a forecast of bad prognosis.
<doc id=HeartFailure/3312701> Hemodynamic effect of oral TA-064 after dobutamine in congestive heart failure.  The hemodynamic effect of oral TA-064 (20 mg), a newly synthesized inotropic agent, was compared with that of intravenous dobutamine (5 micrograms/kg/min) in eight patients with congestive heart failure who had been treated with intravenous dobutamine, digitalis, diuretics, and prazosin. Hemodynamics was measured using a Swan-Ganz catheter during the pre-dobutamine control period, during dobutamine infusion period, during the pre-TA-064 control period and at 90 minutes after oral administration of TA-064. Stroke work index was increased and mean pulmonary capillary wedge pressure was decreased with TA-064 or dobutamine. Cardiac index and stroke index was increased by each drug, and pulmonary and systemic vascular resistances were decreased. Mean systemic arterial pressure, heart rate and pressure-rate product did not significantly change in comparison with the control level. In conclusion, TA-064 has a hemodynamic effect similar to that of dobutamine and may be useful as an oral substitute for dobutamine in patients with congestive heart failure after temporary management with dobutamine.
<doc id=HeartFailure/8610808> Uveal effusion syndrome associated with primary pulmonary hypertension and vomiting.  We treated a 69-year-old woman with bilateral uveal effusions associated with primary pulmonary hypertension, congestive heart failure, and vomiting.The patient underwent ophthalmoscopic, echocardiographic, and fluorescein angiographic examinations.Increased venous pressure caused by congestive heart failure and vomiting was implicated as the cause of bilateral uveal effusions. The uveal effusions responded well to systemic furosemide.Primary pulmonary hypertension with right-sided congestive heart failure and vomiting can lead to the development of uveal effusions.
<doc id=HeartFailure/11123132> Anomalous origin of one pulmonary artery from the innominate artery: a report of two cases.  Two children with an anomalous origin of one pulmonary artery from the innominate artery are reported. One was a 15-month-old boy presenting with respiratory distress. He had a right aortic arch and his left pulmonary artery originated from the innominate artery. The other was a 1-month-old girl presenting with congestive heart failure. She had a left aortic arch and her right pulmonary artery originated from the innominate artery. An understanding of the embryological pathogenesis of these anomalies has significant therapeutic implications.
<doc id=HeartFailure/8080127> [Role of the arterial reservoir during assisted circulation in acute heart failure].  The role of arterial reservoir (AR) has been assessed experimentally in 20 mongrel dogs during the onset of acute heart failure (AHF) and in left ventricular bypass (LVB). The criteria evaluating AR function were as follows: diameter and volume of aorta filling (dA; VA), aortic wall distensibility (D). Va in the range of BPm 30.4 to 171 mm Hg changed from 12.62 to 49.32 ml, i.e. two-three-fold. D at maximum and minimum BRm values decreased by 10 and more times. A direct correlation between relative Va and da changes with a coefficient 2 has been observed in any aortic section. BPm (but not BPsy st or BPdia st which characterizes a degree of tense AR filling can serve as an adequate index of LVB efficacy.
<doc id=HeartFailure/18758947> Central sleep apnea in patients with congestive heart failure.  Central apnea during sleep represents a manifestation of breathing instability in many clinical conditions of varied etiologies. Central apnea is the result of transient cessation of ventilatory motor output, which represents that inhibitory influences favoring instability predominate over excitatory influence favoring stable breathing. This article will review the determinants of central apnea, the specific features of CHF-related central apnea, and outline a management approach.
<doc id=HeartFailure/23481908> Comparison of different invasive hemodynamic methods for AV delay optimization in patients with cardiac resynchronization therapy: implications for clinical trial design and clinical practice.  Reproducibility and hemodynamic efficacy of optimization of AV delay (AVD) of cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) using invasive LV dp/dtmax are unknown.25 patients underwent AV delay (AVD) optimisation twice, using continuous left ventricular (LV) dp/dtmax, systolic blood pressure (SBP) and pulse pressure (PP). We compared 4 protocols for comparing dp/dtmax between AV delays: We assessed for dp/dtmax, LVSBP and LVPP, test-retest reproducibility of the optimum. Optimization using immediate absolute dp/dtmax had poor reproducibility (SDD of replicate optima=41 ms; R(2)=0.45) as did delayed absolute (SDD 39 ms; R(2)=0.50). Multiple relative had better reproducibility: SDD 23 ms, R(2)=0.76, and (p<0.01 by F test). Compared with AAI pacing, the hemodynamic increment from CRT, with the nominal AV delay was LVSBP 2% and LVdp/dtmax 5%, while CRT with pre-determined optimal AVD gave 6% and 9% respectively.Because of inevitable background fluctuations, optimization by absolute dp/dtmax has poor same-day reproducibility, unsuitable for clinical or research purposes. Reproducibility is improved by comparing to a reference AVD and making multiple consecutive measurements. More than 6 measurements would be required for even more precise optimization--and might be advisable for future study designs. With optimal AVD, instead of nominal, the hemodynamic increment of CRT is approximately doubled.Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
<doc id=HeartFailure/2645478> The use of inotropic agents in acute and chronic congestive heart failure.  This article reviews our current understanding of the physiology of myocardial contraction; recent research into its mechanical, macromolecular, and biochemical foundations; and its role in the clinical syndromes of congestive heart failure. This review serves as a background for discussing the mechanism of action and pharmacology of currently available and experimental inotropic agents. The clinical applications of these drugs are discussed and the successes and failures of the pharmacologic approach to patients with congestive heart failure analyzed.
<doc id=HeartFailure/22453540> Advanced effusive-constrictive pericarditis rescued by the aggressive waffle procedure.  We report the case of a 68-year-old man with progressive heart failure due to effusive-constrictive pericarditis. During approximately 1 month, echocardiography revealed rapid progression from pericarditis with effusion without tamponade to pericardial thickening and diastolic dysfunction. Cardiac catheterization revealed that the pressure in the right heart chambers remained high after pericardiocentesis. The patient was rescued by aggressive pericardiectomy and sharp dissection of the epicardium into small fragments. This on-pump beating-heart surgery is known as the waffle procedure.
